...Thank you so much. That's so nice. Isn't he a great guy. He doesn't get a fai
r press; he doesn't get it. It's just not fair. And I have to tell you I'm here,
 and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have gr
eat respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous re
sect for the Tea Party. Also, also the people of Iowa. They have something in co
mmon. Hard-working people. They want to work, they want to make the country grea
t. I love the people of Iowa. So that's the way it is. Very simple.
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a presi
dent who is doing an absolutely terrible job. The world is collapsing around us,
 and many of the problems we've caused. Our president is either grossly incompet
ent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to 
use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, whi
ch could be possible. In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in 
serious trouble and total disarray. Very simple. Politicians are all talk, no ac
tion. They are all talk and no action. And it's constant; it never ends.
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican. And I'
m very disappointed by our Republican politicians. Because they let the presiden
t get away with absolute murder. You see always, oh we're going to do this, we'r
e going to--. Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.
You look at Obamacare. A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in 
'16 and it is going to be a disaster. People are closing up shops. Doctors are q
uitting the business. I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor
, a very successful guy. He said, I have more accountants than I have patients. 
And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had tha
t before and he's going to close up his business. And he was very successful guy
. But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website. I have many websites, many, many we
bsites. They're all over the place. But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie. It was a filthy lie. And when you thin
k about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted? Does anyone do anything? And what 
are the Republican politicians doing about it? He lied about the doctor, he lied
 about every aspect. You can keep your plan. And you've all heard that hundreds 
of times. That's like the real estate location, location. I don't even say it an
ymore because everybody goes location, location. But you have heard this about O
bamacare.
And it's disgraceful. It's a big, fat, horrible lie. Your deductibles are going 
through the roof. You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, yo
u're not going to get coverage. And people that had plans that they loved, that 
they really loved, don't have those plans anymore. So it's a real, real disaster
. And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare. And they have to do it fast 
and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence. And it's got to be a beauty. Who can build better
 than Trump? I build; it's what I do. I build; I build nice fences, but I build 
great buildings. Fences are easy, believe me. I saw the other day on television 
people just walking across the border. They're walking. The military is standing
 there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our 
country. It is so terrible. It is so unfair. It is so incompetent. And we don't 
have the best coming in. We have people that are criminals, we have people that 
are crooks. You can certainly have terrorists. You can certainly have Islamic te
rrorists. You can have anything coming across the border. We don't do anything a
bout it. So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by b
uilding a very, very powerful border.

Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it. Benghazi. Oh,
 Benghazi, Benghazi. Everything is Benghazi. What happens? Nothing.
IRS, e-mails. I get sued all the time, okay. I run a big business. You know I've
 always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful. I have do
ne so many deals. Almost all of them have been tremendously successful. You'll s
ee that when I file my statements. I mean you will see; you will be very proud o
f me, okay. But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for som
ebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for politic
al office, any office, let alone president. Because you've done so much; you've 
beaten so many people; you've created so many-- Look, Obama, what did he do? No 
deal. He never did a deal. He did one deal. A house. And if you did that house y
ou'd be in jail right now, okay. He got away with murder. But I can tell you, e-
mails. IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost. If y
ou were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be los
t. So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk a
bout oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it. Believe me if I d
id something you would have a border that would be great. But they talk about it
. And then you have a president that does an executive order. Nobody even heard 
of an executive order. He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything
 about executive orders. Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory jud
gment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you a
nd when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm g
oing to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declar
atory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six mo
nths earlier. Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's fini
shed, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's goi
ng to forget about it. We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be f
urther destroyed. So we have to do something.
Jobs. China. I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese. One of
 the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it. 
And I know them. And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with. We
 can't believe how stupid your leaders are. They tell me that. Now they don't kn
ow I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not. But they tell me tha
t.
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean t
he goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's ha
ppening with the devaluations of so many countries. The Euro, China is going cra
zy with the devaluation. I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what th
ey're doing. They are devaluing down to nothing. And what it's going to do is ma
ke it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for
 you to compete. And they're getting away with it. And they wouldn't have even d
one it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many differ
ent problems all over the world that they can do it. But you watch this devaluat
ion of all of it. I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing. And wh
en you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good. You know it's one of
 those things, sounds good. Be very careful. Be very careful. Because we're just
 going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really kno
w what they are doing. They have it set. Don't forget another thing. China becam
e the number one economic power a year ago. That was unthinkable; to think that 
that was going to happen. It was absolutely unthinkable. So it happened and it's
 very, very sad.
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq. We got nothing. They don't even respect us; th
ey don't even care about us. Until they started getting their ass kicked, and ca
ll, oh please come back and help us. We want you out; then all of the sudden a n
ew group forms, ISIS. By the way, you know how they formed. They took the oil. A
nd for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have
 I been saying for four years, keep the oil. So now ISIS has the oil. And the st
uff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take. So we get nothing. We have $2
 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do w
e have. I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded war
riors, incredible people. And we have to help those people, we have to help our 
vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military. But, and we h
ave to do it fast; we have to do it fast. We have incompetent people. They put p
eople in charge that have no clue what they're doing. It needs money.
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Secu
rity. 'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does no
t want to cut Social Security. I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to ma
ke the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Me
dicaid. Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social 
Security; you've been paying your Security. And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I
 like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Securit
y, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue. It's an iss
ue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and s
trong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all o
f the other things.
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons. We rea
lly do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast. We can't let Iran get
 a nuclear weapon. We can't do it. Can't do it. We cannot let that happen. You k
now in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago
, pull out and let them fight each other.
Here we are in Syria. We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria. Think o
f this. We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government. Maybe yo
u let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, 
okay. But think of it; think of it. ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the
 hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall. There are so many things; there ar
e so many things.
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really h
ad to think about too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is t
he nuclear. Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles. Y
ou can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections 
of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable. The power. And we
 have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens. We've nev
er had this before.
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money t
here. We're trying to do the right thing. We have leadership, again--no leadersh
ip respects us. You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people
, okay, that's one thing you're going to find. The same thing is happening there
. And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has trem
endous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals. And we're fight
ing here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the mine
rals. They're taking it out. Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of mine
rals. So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and sayin
g thank you very much sucker. It's really, really crazy.

So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country. If we don't-- 
The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed. Bridges are collapsing all over the co
untry. The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening wi
th our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai. I go to vario
us different places. I go to China. They are building a bridge on every corner. 
They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff. 
They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen. They are buildin
g airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar
" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell. But they're building, they're building 
an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never 
seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen. And then I com
e back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes. The place is falling apart.
 You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's 
falling apart. And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt. So 
you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place. This is 
inside, not outside. And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible t
hing you've ever seen. In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.
 I said it's not an honor; they're just smart. But you look at LAX, and you look
 at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roa
dways where they're crumbling.
You look at all of the things that are bad-- I'll give you an example. And this 
isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody
 makes those guard rails. You know the guard rails. The ones that sort of go lik
e this [demonstrates with hand] that are always bent, rusted and horrible. Did y
ou ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if
 it gets too hot, it just crushes. Now they've been selling this thing for 25 ye
ars. Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works. Because they do
n't know; they don't know what's happening. Somebody made a lot of money on that
. They don't know what is happening.
So we have to make our country great again. We have to rebuild our country. And 
we have a long way to go. We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so 
much money. Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it. We owe it to other countr
ies. They're the ones that hold the debt. And then we give them money. We have c
ountries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies. I just ordere
d thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know-- 
No American company comes to see and comes to bid. It's South Korea, and wheneve
r they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send o
ur airplanes, we're going to protect them. What are we doing; why aren't they pa
ying us? Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing? I order thousands and tho
usands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea. You know whether 
it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea. Why aren't t
hey doing something to justify what is going on?
Now, we have a very important election coming up. We have a presidential electio
n coming up. And we have some good people. Nobody like Trump of course, but thes
e are minor details. We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed. He failed. I mean I liked him. Lo
ok--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away
. The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away. What do you think th
ey're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time. It's not fair because it
 was a long t-- That doesn't work. But more importantly, he choked. Something ha
ppened to him in the last month. He had that election won. And let me tell you s
omething. That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal. I k
now many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I ca
n't close it. Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament
. And there are many of them. Most people are like that; I mean most people are 
like that. You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this 
election is tougher to win than beating a failed president. I really do. I think
 beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, 
which is sad to say but true. So you can't have Romney. He choked.
You can't have Bush. The last thing we need is another Bush. Now I made that sta
tement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing-- You know they copi
ed it. I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing. But I sai
d it. I was the one that said it first, and I mean it. The last thing we need is
 another Bush. Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, tha
t's bad, it should be local and all of that. But he's totally in favor of Common
 Core. He's very, very weak on immigration. Don't forget--remember his statement
--they come for love. I say, what? Come for love? You've got these people coming
, half of them are criminals. They're coming for love? They're coming for a lot 
of other reasons, and it's not love. And when he runs, you got to remember his b
rother really gave us Obama. I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obam
a. 'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the 
election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in sh
ambles that last couple of months. And then he appointed Justice Roberts. And Je
b wanted Justice Roberts. And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a 
shocking decision that nobody believes. So you can't have Jeb Bush. And he's goi
ng to lose aside from that; he's not going to win. So Mitt and--you just can't h
ave those two. That's it. That's it. It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because
 it's very important. And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think an
y president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, bec
ause we got one that uses teleprompters. And people say, oh he is so quick on hi
s feet. He is reading it. I mean give me a break. Everything is read. You don't 
really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and t
alk. And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters. But, so whe
n I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would
 be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing. No problems, get off 
stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that. But we have to do some
thing about these teleprompters.
But in looking at these situations-- I built an incredible company. And you'll s
ee that. An incredible company; a wonderful company. I employ thousands of peopl
e and I love doing what I'm doing. And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing 
this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix. We have su
ch great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in:
creating jobs;
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere;
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bo
ne because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives a
nd other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, a
nd far less expensive, both for the people and for the country. And believe me t
here are plans that are so much better for everybody. And everybody can be cover
ed. I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out. Everybody can be c-- This
 plan is just a basic disaster. Nobody knows. As bad as the website was, this is
 how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our
 airports. And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump. I just got the be
st hotel in North America. I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of 
this one. I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Aven
ue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress. Right 
on Penn.-- The Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama. Do you believe tha
t? And everybody wanted it. So, I can't believe it myself. But it's going to be 
fantastic;
and so many other things.
I know what needs to be done to make America great again. We can make this count
ry great again. The potential is enormous. And I am serious thinking of running 
for president because I can do the job.
Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you v
ery much, everybody. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you.