Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for N
ational Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor
. I'd like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for
 our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy,
 and chaos with peace.

It's time to shake the rust off America's foreign policy. It's time to invite ne
w voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction I
 will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign poli
cy will always put the interests of the American people and American security ab
ove all else. It has to be first. Has to be.

That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.

America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But t
o chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot 
to be proud of.

In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and
 Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitar
ianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won an
d we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to he
ed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down t
his wall.

History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortuna
tely, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed t
o develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign pol
icy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and a
rrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.

They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Liby
a, to President Obama's line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have he
lped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and
 prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make wester
n democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a
 western democracy.

We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleash
ed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be l
ives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost 
as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush 
in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.

They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete 
and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I wa
nt to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.

First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our
 military by weakening our economy. He's crippled us with wasteful spending, mas
sive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturing 
trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.

We're rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of Am
erican jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has to
 happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only person
 running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem.
I'm the only one - believe me, I know them all, I'm the only one who knows how t
o fix it.

Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I've been talking abou
t this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, politi
cal, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But many
 of them are simply not doing so.

They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to h
onor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member 
countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on
 defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ship
s, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe an
d Asia.

The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not
, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no
 choice.

The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common 
defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is prop
erly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.

Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can't depend on us. We've had a
 president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that we'v
e never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous de
al with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was 
dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. Remembe
r that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.

And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nucle
ar weapon.

All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Ir
an's treatment of our ten captured sailors - so vividly I remember that day. In 
negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our wor
st agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.

When the other side knows you're not going to walk, it becomes absolutely imposs
ible to win - you just can't win. At the same time, your friends need to know th
at you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You've made that ag
reement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. President
 Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense
 plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a friendly
 regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and then help
ed bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.

Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been 
snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few
 days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and
 peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.

President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender
 love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, grea
t power in just a very short period of time, because of what we've done. All of 
the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very 
importantly, the United States itself.

We've picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they're starting to look el
sewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they're just as confused as ou
r allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don't take us seriously anymore.
 The truth is they don't respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air 
Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.

Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air
 Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It's called
 no respect. Absolutely no respect.

Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen,
 Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effo
rt, it was announced that the United States came in fourth - fourth place? The p
resident of the United States making this trip - unprecedented - comes in fourth
 place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commi
tment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many times.

The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly
 as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with it
s nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assaul
t on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverag
e on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the p
ower over China, economic power, and people don't understand it. And with that e
conomic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do wit
h North Korea, which is totally out of control.

He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and eng
aged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. We've 
let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they d
o. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama's goal had been to wea
ken America, he could not have done a better job.

Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals
. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we've lacke
d a coherent foreign policy. One day, we're bombing Libya and getting rid of a d
ictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we're watching the same
 civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Lives los
t, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.

We're a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions w
ill be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We've made the Middle East more
 unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intense pe
rsecution and even genocide.

We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be as
hamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria ha
ve helped unleash ISIS, and we're in a war against radical Islam, but President 
Obama won't even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will never e
ver solve the problem.

Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes 
for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clin
ton's failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our
 consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of
 taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredi
ble.

Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be a
bsolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state mi
sled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o'clo
ck in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a wee
k selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don't blockade, we don't bomb, we don
't do anything about it. It's almost as if our country doesn't even know what's 
happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change when I 
become president.

To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is
 going to be reliable again. It's going to be a great and reliable ally again. I
t's going to be a friend again. We're going to finally have a coherent foreign p
olicy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.

We're getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creati
ng stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics e
nded at the water's edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, inform
ed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parti
es - Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close al
lies.

This is how we won the Cold War and it's how we will win our new future struggle
s, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become presiden
t.

First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. C
ontaining the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the
 United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military forc
e, but it's also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold Wa
r.

In this, we're going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim wo
rld, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everyth
ing else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.

We should work - thank you.

We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the 
rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be go
od to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It's now
 two-way. And remember, us and all we're doing, they have to appreciate what we'
ve done to them. We're going to help, but they have to appreciate what we've don
e for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland.
 There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. 
For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. We must st
op importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have no idea w
here these people are coming from. There's no documentation. There's no paperwor
k. There's nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.

A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or fran
kly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and Septem
ber 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest mili
tary catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because 
you take a look at what's happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to th
e military being attacked - one of the true great catastrophes.

And then there's ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered
. I won't tell them where and I won't tell them how. We must...

... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We te
ll everything. We're sending troops. We tell them. We're sending something else.
 We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be unpre
dictable starting now.

But they're going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I'm elected president. And th
ey'll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.

Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chin
ese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what's happened
 to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to
 atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has to 
happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1
991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 s
hips during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller t
han 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older t
han virtually everybody in this room.

And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense bu
dget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 
2011. Our military is depleted and we're asking our generals and military leader
s to worry about global warming.

We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single i
nvestment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment kn
own to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquesti
oned, by anybody and everybody.

But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mountin
g debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the
 problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we wa
ste. We're also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic poli
cies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.

This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and h
igher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nati
on, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart a
bout areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us
 an edge.

This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great co
untry also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I
 mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the be
st equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And 
the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home 
to civilian life. Our veterans...

Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people 
and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and t
hat will happen under the Trump administration.

Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesse
s do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do cou
ntries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 
- and this was a horrible time for us - were attacked. and 17 brave sailors were
 killed on the U.S.S. Cole.

And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the Worl
d Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Fra
nkly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even had a
n opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn't do it

And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst
 attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on
 America's core national security interests. And the following will be my priori
ties.

In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists a
nd promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted ab
out the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, w
e have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to be
 smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not h
elp them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our f
riends.

We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have se
rious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, b
ut we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on sha
red interests.

Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe a
n easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of stre
ngth only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this h
orrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both cou
ntries.

Some say the Russians won't be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can't mak
e a deal under my administration, a deal that's great - not good, great - for Am
erica, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. It's 
as simple as that. We're going to find out.

Fixing our relations with China is another important step - and really toward cr
eating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by le
tting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never be
fore, we have lost all of their respect.

We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way
 quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an Ameri
ca that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look 
at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They're not supposed to be doing 
it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can bot
h go our separate ways. If need be, that's what's going to have to happen.

After I'm elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies 
and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only 
discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we 
can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we wi
ll discuss how we can upgrade NATO's outdated mission and structure, grown out o
f the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islami
c terrorism.

I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But i
f America fights, it must only fight to win.

I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely
 necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.

Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achie
ve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign polic
y. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we've had the exact opposite - a r
eckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path of 
destruction in its wake.

After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far
 worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to ex
plain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a comple
te and total disaster.

I will also be prepared to deploy America's economic resources. Financial levera
ge and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selective
ly and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do not play by
 the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and enem
ies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in the
 sand. Believe me.

However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not
 be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A sup
erpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strengt
h. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, ve
ry proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sad
ly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is sy
stematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves
, something it has wanted to do for decades.

And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy t
hat will endure for several generations. That's why I also look and have to look
 for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surroundi
ng myself with those who have perfect résumés but very little to brag about ex
cept responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses a
t war. We have to look to new people.

We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don't know 
what they're doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The New Yo
rk Times or being watched on television.

Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institut
ions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or 
wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilizatio
n and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the wo
rld than military interventions.

These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans
, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and all
ies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abro
ad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friend
s and when old friends become allies, that's what we want. We want them to be ou
r allies.

We want the world to be - we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destruct
ion out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the single
 biggest problem that we have today in the world.

To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its 
leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more i
nterested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their 
own. Americans.

Americans must know that we're putting the American people first again on trade.

So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and secu
rity of the American worker will always be my first priority.

No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both o
ur friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fa
ir to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country 
or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true 
foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions tha
t tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.

And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that
 reduces our ability to control our own affairs.

NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has em
ptied our states - literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our job
s. And I've just gotten to see it. I've toured Pennsylvania. I've toured New Yor
k. I've toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Their manufact
uring is gone.

Never again, only the reverse - and I have to say this strongly - never again; o
nly the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. There 
will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to expl
oit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United States. Th
ere will be consequences for those companies. Never again.

Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that thei
r needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.

I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests.
 I will be America's greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apol
ogize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritag
e that makes us who we are.

The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. Americ
a will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We will alw
ays help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must ma
ke America strong again.

And always - always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every 
angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must make
 America truly wealthy again. And we must - we have to and we will make America 
great again. And if we do that - and if we do that, perhaps this century can be 
the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you very 
much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.