Chris, thank you very much. I appreciate it.
This has been an amazing evening. Already, we've won five major states and it lo
oks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.

It's really been - it's really been great.
I want to congratulation Ted on the winning of Texas. He worked hard on he - I k
now how hard he worked actually, and so I congratulate Ted Cruz on that win. Tha
t was an excellent win.
We're going to make America great again, folks. We're going to make it great aga
in.
And, you know, I watched Hillary's speech and she's talking about wages have bee
n poor and everything's poor and everything's doing badly, but we're going to ma
ke it - she's been there for so long. I mean, if she hasn't straightened it out 
by now, she's not going to straighten it out in the next four years. It's just g
oing to become worse and worse. She wants to make America whole again and I'm tr
ying to figure out what is that all about. Make America great again is going to 
be much better than making America whole again.
So I just want to say that this was an exciting evening. It's so great to be in 
Florida. It's so great to be at Mar-A-Lago with friends and the press and the me
dia and everybody.

I know it was a very tough night for Marco Rubio. He had a tough night but he wo
rked hard. He spent a lot of money. He is a lightweight, as I've said many times
 before. But you know what? We're going to go to Florida, we're going to spend s
o much time in Florida. We've got about a 20-point lead. I know that a lot of gr
oups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the people t
hat want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, they're going to 
put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from what just c
ame over the wires. And frankly, I think that's fine. As far as I'm concerned, i
t's fine. And if he wins, they'll have totally controlled - total control. But h
e's not going anywhere anyway, but we'll see what happens. But we're going to sp
end a lot of time in Florida.
The Virginia one was just a great win because it's a place that is just spectacu
lar and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in Florida. Remember
, we have thousands of employees in Florida, all along Miami, Doral and Mar-A-La
go and so many other places. And it's been an amazing place to invest. It's been
 amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here tonight, 
really urging us on.
And you know, I have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all 
over the world but for purposes of tonight, we'll just say all over the country.
 And it's been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it grow
 so strongly.
Recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we 
want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. I mean, our n
ation is in serious trouble. We're being chilled on trade, absolutely destroyed.
 China is just taking advantage of us. I have nothing against China. I have grea
t respect for China, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Our leader
s don't have a clue and the trade deficits at $400 billion and $500 are too much
. No country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. It won't be that way for lo
ng. We have the greatest business leaders in the world on my team already and, b
elieve me, we're going to redo those trade deals and it's going to be a thing of
 beauty.
You look at countries like Mexico, where they're killing us on the border, absol
utely destroying us on the border. They're destroying us in terms of economic de
velopment. Companies like Carrier Air Conditioner just moving into Mexico. Ford,
 moving into Mexico. Nabisco, closing up shop in Chicago and moving into Mexico.
 We have to stop it, folks. I know how to stop it. We're going to create jobs. W
e're going to create jobs like you've never seen.
We're going to lower taxes. I have a plan that Larry Kudlow and so many others t
hink is the best plan they've seen. We're going to lower taxes substantially for
 the middle class. The middle class has been forgotten in our country. It really
 helped and really probably was the predominant factor in making our country int
o a country that we all love so much and we're all so proud of, but we've forgot
ten the middle class. So we're going to lower taxes.
We're lowering taxes on business. You look at all the companies that are moving 
out. When you see Pfizer moving to Ireland and you see so many other companies, 
constantly now they're leaving. They used to move from New York to Florida, or t
hey'd move from New Jersey to someplace else, Chris. But now they're moving from
 here - - not that many people are leaving New Jersey. But Chris understands the
 problem, fully understands. Now they're leaving from places that they used to m
ove to into other parts of the world. We can't let that happen.
We've lost our manufacturing jobs. We've lost our manufacturing. Millions and mi
llions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants, manufacturing p
lants, warehouses. I mean, we are losing so much. We can't let it happen.
I tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business 
and he always orders Caterpillar. And recently, he ordered Komatsu tractors from
 Japan because they've cut the yen. They've devalued the yen to such an extent t
hat it was virtually impossible for Caterpillar to compete. And I don't want tha
t to happen. That's not going to happen. They shouldn't be allowed to do it.
We have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. We hav
e great, great power. The problem is we have politicians who truly, truly, truly
 don't know what they're doing. So we're going to work very, very hard.
I'm so honored by this evening. If you would've told me on June 16th, when I was
 with my wife, Melania, and we came down the escalator in Trump Tower and it loo
ked, literally, well, a little bit like this. You have a lot of cameras here ton
ight.

It looked, literally, like the Academy Awards. I never saw so many cameras in my
 life. And it takes courage to run. I'll tell you what, it takes a lot of courag
e to run for president. I've never done this before. I've been a job-producer. I
've done a lot of things but this is something I've never done, but I felt we ha
d to do it. When you look at the incompetence of the Iran deal, where we give $1
50 billion, we get absolutely nothing. When you look at all of the problems our 
country has and you look at our military, which is really being depleted rapidly
, depleted. We're going to make our military bigger and better and stronger than
 ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, folks, nobody
.

So it's just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. And if you want, pres
s, I think we told you before we'd be okay if you want to ask a few questions.
Yes, go ahead.

Well, they can always do that and then they'll - then they'll just lose everythi
ng and that would be the - that would be the work of a loser.
But let me just explain something. If you've seen what's happened, whether you g
o to South Carolina, where I had a huge victory, where we had a tremendous victo
ry in New Hampshire, tremendous in Nevada, you look at what's happened, and toni
ght, of course, is the best of all. I mean, right now, they're projected I guess
 six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. It's Georgia, Alabam
a, Massachusetts - (CHEERS) - Tennessee, Virginia. And you know, these are amazi
ng states and we're going to probably get a lot more. In fact, we're projected t
o have some pretty good additional numbers.
But I will say this. Look, we have expanded the Republican Party. When you look 
at what's happened in South Carolina and you see the kind of numbers that we got
, in terms of extra people coming in. They came from the Democratic Party, or th
e Democrat Party, and they're Democrats and they're long-time Democrats and they
 were never going to switch and they all switched. And they were independents. A
nd we've actually expanded the party. Look at the number of votes we had in that
 area, as an example. Four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. We doubled i
t. We were almost 800,000. Whereas the Democrats went down. There's much less en
thusiasm for the Democrats.
So I - look, I'm a unifier. I know people are going to find that a little bit ha
rd to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. Once we get all of this finished,
 I'm going to go after one person, that's Hillary Clinton, on the assumption she
's allowed to run, which is a big assumption. I don't know that she's going to b
e allowed to run. And I think that's, frankly, going to be an easy race. You see
 the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. I know one thing. I don't think Marco 
is going to be able to beat her. I don't think - in all fairness, I think Ted's 
going to have a very hard time. But Ted at least has a shot because at least he'
s won a little bit.
So I just tell you this. We are going to be a much finer party, a much - we're g
oing to be a unified party, I mean, to be honest with you. And we are going to b
e a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. We're going to be a much 
bigger party. Our party is expanding. And all you have to do it take a look at t
he primary states where I've won and just look - we've gone from X number to a m
uch larger number. That hasn't happened to the Republican Party in many, many de
cades. So I think we're going to be more inclusive. I think we're going to be mo
re unified and I think we're going to be a much bigger party, and I think we're 
going to win in November. OK, yeah?

I'm just doing what's right. Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good work fo
r some - for many, many - for millions of women. And I'll say it and I know a lo
t of the so-called conservatives, they say that's really - because I'm a conserv
ative, but I'm a common-sense conservative. But millions of women have been help
ed by Planned Parenthood. But we're not going to allow and we're not going to fu
nd as long as you have the abortion going on at Planned Parenthood, and we under
stand that and I've said it loud and clear. But - and we'll see what happens. Bu
t Planned Parenthood - millions of people - and I've had thousands of letters fr
om women that have been helped. And this wasn't a setup. This was people writing
 letters. I'm going to be really good for women. I'm going to be good for women'
s health issues. It's very important to me, very important to me.
 And maybe that's not a perfect conservative view, but I can tell you one thing.
 I'm more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking care of our vets,
 on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare and coming up with some
thing much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of common core and bringing 
education to a local level so that you're going to have good education for our c
hildren who are being absolutely starved for proper education.
So Sarah, I mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but I am a truth-tell
er and I will tell the truth, OK?
Yeah, go ahead, finish it.

I feel awfully good. I mean, I'm watching your people - I'm watching your people
 on - and I'm going to be very nice, I'm going to be very nice - I'm watching yo
ur people on CNN and I'm watching the Fox people and I'm watching the MSNBC peop
le, too, OK? See? I'm becoming diplomatic. And they are certainly being very nic
e to me tonight. I mean, you know, they're being very strong. And they are, they
're declaring Marco Rubio the big loser of the night, which is true. He didn't w
in anything. He hasn't won anything, period.
And by the way, and I have to tell you - and he was very, very nasty. I've never
 heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be so nasty, but he
's got a right to be nasty. He hasn't won anything and he's not going to win ver
y much.
But I do congratulate Ted because I know how hard Ted worked on Texas and it's a
 big get. Now I also did very well in Texas. I came in second. And one of the th
ings my son, Eric, told me, which I didn't even realize, is that not only did I 
win most of the states - and some are coming in and I'm expected to win them - b
ut I came in second - I came in no worse than second. So it wasn't like I won an
d then I disappeared. The worst I had was a second. So I'm very, very honored by
 the turnout, OK?
Yes, go ahead.

Right. Oh, they're totally wrong. Look, I disavowed. I disavowed when I - in fac
t, Chris is my number one - Chris gave me the honor of joining the campaign. He 
called me. He said, "Donald, what you've got is a movement." We spoke today in K
entucky. You've never seen a crowd like that. That had to be 20,000 people insid
e this massive convention center and it was incredible. And every place we're sp
eaking, if we have 10,000 people it's like a small group. We had 35,000 people t
he other day in Alabama. And when Chris called, he said this is a movement; this
 is something like I've never seen. And in all fairness to the press, a lot of t
he press have said the same thing. They've never seen what's happening right now
. They've never seen anything like it. And I'm just honored by it.
Now, when Chris joined, we had a news conference and they asked me the exact sam
e question. I said I disavow. Now, right after the program that we're talking ab
out - and I thought it was clear, but you know, we're talking about groups, grou
ps, groups. I do have to know the name of the group because, who knows? I mean, 
they have to give me the name of the group. But right after, when I reviewed it,
 I put out a tweet and I put out on Facebook that I totally disavow. Now everybo
dy knew I did that but the press refused to look at that. It was right after. An
d I disavowed then; I disavowed today on ABC with George Stephanopoulos, I disav
owed again. I mean, how many times are you supposed to disavow? But I disavow an
d hopefully it's the final time I have to do it. But if you look at Facebook and
 if you look at Twitter, right after the show I put out a statement because I wa
nt everybody to be sure.
Yes, go ahead.

No, it's not, but there is always going to be some negotiation, and it's going t
o be a good negotiation, not a bad negotiation. It's going to be a negotiation w
here we'll start at certain levels and hopefully I will make a great deal, and l
ots of great deals, for the American people.
So you know, look, you can't go around just signing our little notices that the 
president signs all the time, executive orders, he's done executive order, execu
tive order. It's almost like, I don't even know. Does he ever go a deal with Con
gress anymore? Does he ever speak to the Senate? Does he ever speak with congres
smen and get them into a room and get things done?
You know, a good example of this, in all fairness, is something that I - is very
, very important to me; corporate inversion. Carl Icahn, who's a friend of mine 
who endorsed me, great businessman, he - it bothers him so much he calls me abou
t it all the time, where we're losing companies. And we're losing for two reason
s. We're losing for a lot of reasons but the taxes are too high. We have the hig
hest - we're the highest taxed nation in the world.
And very importantly, they have trillions, for companies, trillions of dollars o
utside of this country. The Democrats agree it should be brought back in. The Re
publicans agree it should be brought back in. Everybody agrees it should be brou
ght back in. I could sit in a room - or the Oval Office - for a period of, liter
ally, a half hour and I really believe I could get everybody - every single - yo
u know, it's one thing they don't agree on health care or they don't agree on co
mmon core or they don't agree on other things and they'll fight. Here's somethin
g every single - I mean, almost everybody agrees. These trillions and trillions 
of dollars should be brought into the country.
The president can't make a deal. The reason is he doesn't know how to make a dea
l, probably doesn't work at it, probably doesn't care, but you're talking about 
tremendous number of - tremendous amounts of money. So when you have something t
hat everybody wants and you can't make a deal, there's something going on that's
 really wrong. And what it means is you have the wrong leader.
Yes?

Well, look, everything - we are going to have a wall. I can tell you we are goin
g to have a wall. I watched the ex-president of Mexico, the arrogance of this ma
n. And I get along great with Hispanics. You saw in Nevada, I won in the poll, t
he Hispanic vote. I have thousands of people that work for me right now that are
 Hispanic. I've had thousands and thousands over my lifetime. These are great pe
ople. The Mexican leaders are too smart for our leaders and you saw it. Vincente
 Fox, first of all, he used a word that you should never have - if I ever used t
hat word you folks would've never, ever, ever let me get away with it. Nobody ev
en talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word. But he was angry
 at the concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the wall. Mex
ico is going to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 bil
lion a year - $58 billion. The wall is going to cost $10 billion. It's so easy. 
I've had these guys that I'm on the stage with go you don't really mean Mexico i
s going to pay for the wall. One - as sure as you're standing there, 100 percent
, Mexico's going to pay, 100 percent.

And the reason is I'm a businessman. I know how to do this. Politicians are all 
talk, no action. It's not going to - except for Chris Christie, of course. It's 
not - look, it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen with these people
.
So when you think of it - and then they say you'll never be able to build a wall
. Well, it's 2,000 miles but we really need 1,000 miles. The Great Wall of China
, built 2,000 years ago, is 13,000 miles, folks, and they didn't have Caterpilla
r tractors, because I only want to use Caterpillar, if you want to know the trut
h, or John Deere. I buy a lot of equipment from John Deere. I love John Deere, t
oo. But they didn't have tractors. They didn't have cranes. They didn't have exc
avation equipment. The wall is 13,000 miles long. We need 1,000 miles and we hav
e all of the materials. We can do that so beautifully. And this is going to be a
 serious wall. This is going to be high wall. This is going to be a very serious
 wall.
We're going to stop drugs from coming into New Hampshire. You know, when I won N
ew Hampshire, those people were so incredible to me. And when you go, you wouldn
't believe it because it's so bucolic, so beautiful. You look at the fields and 
you look at everything, it's so beautiful. And yet, you go to a meeting in New H
ampshire, their number one problem, their number one problem is heroine. The her
oine is pouring in and they have so many of their young people and other people 
addicted. And I told them I'm going to stop it. I'm going to stop it. We're goin
g to have a strong border, and I mean strong.
And by the way, speaking of people, people are going to come in and they're goin
g to come into this country, but they're going to come in legally, OK?

I've got to find out what's going on. We've got a big problem. We have a big, bi
g problem. I'll tell it like it is. We have a big, big problem. We've got to fig
ure it out. We're going to figure it out. Radical Islamic terrorism, big, big pr
oblem, not only for us. You take a look at Germany, you take a look at Sweden, y
ou take a look at Brussels. You look at some of these places, it's like a disast
er. And we're not going to allow people to come into our country who we have no 
idea who they are, we have no idea where they come from, they have no paperwork,
 they're young and they're strong. You look at that migration line; they're youn
g, they're strong, they're powerful. And you say why aren't they back fighting f
or their country?
Now, with all of that being said, I feel strongly - I have a bigger heart than a
nybody. We're going to build a safe zone. It's going to be in Syria. And I'm goi
ng to get the Gulf states, who have more money than anybody - we've got to loose
n up their wallets a little bit. We're going to get - but they're not accepting 
people. We're going to get - wait, wait, wait. We're going to get the Gulf state
s to pay for it because they should.

Oh, we're going to bring them back. We're going to bring them back. Look, I'm te
lling you - you know how I'm going to bring them back? First of all, we're going
 to do great with the African- Americans, and you see that in the polls where I 
had in one poll where I'm 25 percent. And one of the commentators, who I think i
s standing right at the back of the room in the corner, said, you know, if Donal
d Trump gets 25 percent of the African-American vote, this election is over. You
 watch. And the reason I'm getting that - and I'm going to do great with the His
panics. I'm going to do great with virtually every group. The reason is I'm goin
g to bring jobs back. I'm going to get Apple to start making their computers and
 their iPhones on our land, not in China. How does it help us when they make it 
in China?

Well, look, I always liked Marco until about a week ago when he decided to go ho
stile. He decided to become Don Rickles, OK? But Don Rickles has a lot more tale
nt. Honestly, I did, I always liked him but he became - you know, somebody told 
him you're losing very badly. The only way you can possibly win, take the hail M
ary, they called it a hail Mary, the folks in the back, and go hostile. It's hur
t him. In fact, one of the newscasts tonight said he went down 15 or 20 percent.
 It's really hurt him.
But look, I'm not going to tell him what to do. I'm not going to tell anybody wh
at to do. You have to run. He had a bad night, according to CNN, Fox. I watched 
their broadcasts. They say the loser of the night was Marco Rubio and it's true.
 He didn't win anything. He hasn't won. I mean, at least you can say that Ted ha
s won something, and you know, Marco has not won. You've got to be able to win. 
You can't talk. You know, these politicians, all talk, no action. You've got to 
be able to win something. He hasn't won anything. And he actually hasn't come ve
ry close. So we'll see what happens.
Yes, go ahead.

I'm going to be a good president for the world but we have a country that's in b
ig trouble. Our infrastructure is going to hell, our roads, our highways, our sc
hools, our hospitals, our airports. I go throughout the world. I mean, you go to
 Qatar, you go to - some people say Qatar, but you go to Qatar, you go to any of
 - so many places. You go to different places in China, different places in Asia
, different places in the Middle East, you look at some of the airports they hav
e. You look at the roadways they have. You look at the transportation systems th
ey have and the trains they have. We're like a third world country.
So I am going to be very good for the world. I'm going to get along with the wor
ld. You're going to be very proud of me. Even you will be very proud of me as a 
president. But we have to rebuild our country. Our country is going to hell and 
people don't understand that.
And Hillary Clinton doesn't have a clue. She can't do that. She's talking about 
- I mean, one of the things that has really bothered me, I think one of the reas
ons I have such great support, is that people, you take a look, people in the mi
ddle-income groups are making less money today - less money than they made 12 ye
ars ago. And in her speech, she just said they're making less money. Well, she's
 been there with Obama for a long period of time. Why hasn't she done anything a
bout it? Practically everything that she was complaining about - she's picked up
 what I say. The difference is she's been there for a long period of time. Why h
aven't they done anything about it?
Then you look at her record as secretary of State. It's abysmal. You look at wha
t's going on with Syria. You look at what's going on with everything. It's a dis
aster.
So we're going to have an interesting period of time. I don't know that she's go
ing to be allowed to run. What she did is a criminal act. If she's allowed to ru
n I would be very, very surprised. But if she's allowed to run, honestly, it'll 
be a sad day for this country because what she did was wrong. And what she did -
 (CHEERS) - let me just tell you, what she did was wrong and other people have d
one far less than her and they paid a very, very big price.
OK, one or two more questions. Yeah, go ahead, Jeremy

At this moment, absolutely not, no. We either have a country or we don't. We hav
e a country, or we don't. We have borders or we don't have borders. And at this 
moment, the answer is absolutely not.

Well, look, I don't expect - I have a lot of respect for Reince and for the grou
p and I like the RNC and I don't know that I've been treated fairly or not. I re
ally don't know. I can't tell you that. But I can tell you that I do respect the
m.
What I really have is a great number of people. I have millions and millions of 
people. And when I was watching this broadcast just a little while ago, before I
 came in here because I wanted to see exactly where we were before I started spe
aking, I was amazed at the kind of numbers. The Republicans have tremendous ener
gy. The Democrats don't. They don't have any energy. Their numbers are down. Our
 number are through the roof. And people are making the statements they've never
 seen, in modern times, a party that was so energized.
I think if somebody is doing as well as I'm doing - and I'm not just speaking fo
r myself, whether it be me or anybody else - but if I'm going to win five - I've
 already won five, but maybe it could be six, seven, eight, nine. It could be ni
ne, could win nine states tonight. If I'm going to win all of these states with 
tremendous numbers, and if I'm going to come in the worst is second in the two o
r three that I might not win, I think, you know, we're a democracy. I think it's
 awfully hard to say that's not the person we want to lead the party, right? You
 know, it's very hard.
But I really think that - I think it's a great question, David, because I really
 think that one of the biggest things that everybody is seeing happening, and ev
erybody, is the Republican Party has become more dynamic. It's become more diver
se. We're taking from the Democrats. We're taking from the independents. We have
 a lot more people. We have a lot more people. I mean, take a look at South Caro
lina. Look at the numbers. Look at the numbers from four years ago when nobody e
ven wanted to waste their time and vote. And then you look at - I was there and 
you had lines that went a mile long. And it was virtually more than doubled.
So we have a very, very dynamic party and I think we're going to be able to unif
y the party. I hope to be able to get along with everybody. I don't know Paul Ry
an well but I hope to be able to get along with him. I do know Mitch McConnell a
 little bit but I hope to be able to get along with him. But remember this. I ha
ve millions and millions and millions of people. This isn't like it's a close ma
tch. I mean, it's only too bad that winner didn't take all, because if winner to
ok all, this thing is over. We're just having a celebration.

You know, we're having a celebration.
So anyway, I would like to - look, I just want to end by thanking everybody. Thi
s has been an amazing period in my life. My wife just called and Ivanka, as you 
know, is going to be having a baby very soon and she's a special person and it's
 going to be great and we look forward to that. She's back in New York. She want
ed to be here. They all wanted to be here but they're with Ivanka now and that c
ould be, certainly, within the next week. But this this has been an amazing peri
od of time. It's been amazing for me, even from an educational standpoint. And I
 think, honestly, we've done something that almost nobody thought could be done 
and I'm very proud of it.
And I just want to leave you with this. I am a unifier. I would love to see the 
Republican Party and everybody get together and unify. And when we unify, there'
s nobody, nobody that's going to beat us.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.

Thank you very much. Thank you.