SPEECH 1


...Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a 
fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm 
here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and ha
ve great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendo
us resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have somethin
g in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the cou
ntry great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a presi
dent who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us
, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incomp
etent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first t
o use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, w
hich could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is 
in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, 
no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I
'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the presid
ent get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, w
e're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in
 '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors ar
e quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good do
ctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patie
nts.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never h
ad that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very success
ful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many w
ebsites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you th
ink about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And w
hat are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he
 lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hu
ndreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even 
say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard th
is about Obamacare.
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are goin
g through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank,
 you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, t
hat they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real dis
aster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do i
t fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build bett
er than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I bu
ild great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on telev
ision people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is 
standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming i
nto our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  A
nd we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have
 people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly 
have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We do
n't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would ce
rtainly start by building a very, very powerful border.


Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  O
h, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I
've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I hav
e done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  Yo
u'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very 
proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard
 for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for
 political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much
; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did 
he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you d
id that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I
 can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; th
ey were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost
; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-m
ails are?
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk a
bout oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I 
did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about 
it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even he
ard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does any
thing about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declarato
ry judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after
 you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said,
 I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a 
declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process 
six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it
's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyon
e's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country w
ill be further destroyed.  So we have to do something.
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One
 of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for i
t.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away wit
h.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they 
don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they te
ll me that.
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean t
he goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's ha
ppening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going cr
azy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what 
they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do i
s make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible
 for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have 
even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many 
different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this d
evaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing
.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know i
t's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Becau
se we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries th
at really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thi
ng.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkabl
e; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So i
t happened and it's very, very sad.
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; 
they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and
 call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden
 a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the 
oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of yo
u--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  A
nd the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing. 
 We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have
, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many
 wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have
 to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military. 
 But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent peo
ple.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs 
money.
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Secu
rity.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does n
ot want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to 
make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and 
Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Soci
al Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Rya
n, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Sec
urity, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's a
n issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again 
and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and 
all of the other things.
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We re
ally do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran g
et a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen. 
 You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 yea
rs ago, pull out and let them fight each other.
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think
 of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Mayb
e you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remai
ns, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombi
ng the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; t
here are so many things.
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really h
ad to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is 
the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.
  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sectio
ns of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  A
nd we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We'
ve never had this before.
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money t
here.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leader
ship respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid peo
ple, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening t
here.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has
 tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're
 fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all th
e minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars
 of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us 
and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.


So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--
  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the
 country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happenin
g with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to vari
ous different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corne
r.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stu
ff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are b
uilding airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said 
"qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're bu
ilding an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have
 never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And th
en I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falli
ng apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so
 old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with a
sphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the pla
ce.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the mos
t incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is
 such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at 
LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, yo
u look at our roadways where they're crumbling.
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this
 isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebod
y makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go 
like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  
Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the hea
t, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for
 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because
 they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of mone
y on that.  They don't know what is happening.
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  An
d we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe 
so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other c
ountries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  W
e have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I ju
st ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean yo
u know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, 
and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers
, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why ar
en't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order tho
usands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  Yo
u know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Kore
a.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential electi
on coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but th
ese are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him. 
 Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going a
way.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you thi
nk they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair beca
use it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Som
ething happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me
 tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close t
he deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they g
o ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win 
the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean 
most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actua
lly I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I 
really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one
 that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He 
choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that s
tatement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they c
opied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But 
I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we 
need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disas
ter, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor 
of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember hi
s statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these
 people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're c
oming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got 
to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his br
other gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead coul
d not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was ju
st absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Jus
tice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically ap
proved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have
 Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So M
itt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because
 it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think a
ny president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, be
cause we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on 
his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You 
don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage
 and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But
, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, 
it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems,
 get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have 
to do something about these teleprompters.
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll
 see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of p
eople and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't d
oing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We h
ave such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in:
creating jobs;
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere;
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bo
ne because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives a
nd other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, a
nd far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me 
there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be cov
ered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- 
This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, t
his is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our
 airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the 
best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think 
of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania 
Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  R
ight on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you bel
ieve that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's g
oing to be fantastic;
and so many other things.
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this coun
try great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of runni
ng for president because I can do the job.
Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank 
you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Beautiful.  Thank you.


SPEECH 2


Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for N
ational Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor
. I’d like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction f
or our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strateg
y, and chaos with peace.


It’s time to shake the rust off America’s foreign policy. It’s time to inv
ite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direc
tion I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreig
n policy will always put the interests of the American people and American secur
ity above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.


That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.


America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But t
o chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot 
to be proud of.


In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and
 Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitar
ianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won an
d we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to he
ed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down t
his wall.






History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortuna
tely, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed t
o develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign pol
icy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and a
rrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.


They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Liby
a, to President Obama’s line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have 
helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow a
nd prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make west
ern democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming
 a western democracy.


We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleash
ed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be l
ives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost 
as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush 
in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.


They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete 
and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I wa
nt to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.


First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our
 military by weakening our economy. He’s crippled us with wasteful spending, m
assive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturin
g trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.


We’re rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of 
American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has 
to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only pers
on running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem
.
I’m the only one — believe me, I know them all, I’m the only one who knows
 how to fix it.






Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I’ve been talking ab
out this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, poli
tical, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But ma
ny of them are simply not doing so.


They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to h
onor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member 
countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on
 defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ship
s, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe an
d Asia.


The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not
, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no
 choice.






The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common 
defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is prop
erly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.


Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can’t depend on us. We’ve h
ad a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that 
we’ve never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastr
ous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the in
k was dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. R
emember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.




And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nucle
ar weapon.




All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Ir
an’s treatment of our ten captured sailors — so vividly I remember that day.
 In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our
 worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.


When the other side knows you’re not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impo
ssible to win — you just can’t win. At the same time, your friends need to k
now that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You’ve made
 that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. P
resident Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile
 defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a 
friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and t
hen helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.


Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been 
snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few
 days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and
 peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.


President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender
 love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, grea
t power in just a very short period of time, because of what we’ve done. All o
f the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and ver
y importantly, the United States itself.


We’ve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they’re starting to loo
k elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they’re just as confused as 
our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don’t take us seriously anym
ore. The truth is they don’t respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba o
n Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.


Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air
 Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It’s call
ed no respect. Absolutely no respect.


Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen,
 Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effo
rt, it was announced that the United States came in fourth — fourth place? The
 president of the United States making this trip — unprecedented — comes in 
fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing
 commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many t
imes.


The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly
 as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with it
s nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assaul
t on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverag
e on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the p
ower over China, economic power, and people don’t understand it. And with that
 economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do w
ith North Korea, which is totally out of control.


He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and eng
aged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. We’v
e let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they
 do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama’s goal had been to
 weaken America, he could not have done a better job.


Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals
. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we’ve lac
ked a coherent foreign policy. One day, we’re bombing Libya and getting rid of
 a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we’re watching th
e same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Liv
es lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.


We’re a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions
 will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We’ve made the Middle East 
more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intens
e persecution and even genocide.






We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be as
hamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria ha
ve helped unleash ISIS, and we’re in a war against radical Islam, but Presiden
t Obama won’t even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will nev
er ever solve the problem.






Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes 
for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clin
ton’s failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down o
ur consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead 
of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incre
dible.


Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be a
bsolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state mi
sled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o’c
lock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a w
eek selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don’t blockade, we don’t bomb, 
we don’t do anything about it. It’s almost as if our country doesn’t even 
know what’s happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all 
change when I become president.


To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is
 going to be reliable again. It’s going to be a great and reliable ally again.
 It’s going to be a friend again. We’re going to finally have a coherent for
eign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies
.






We’re getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on crea
ting stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics
 ended at the water’s edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, in
formed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both p
arties — Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our cl
ose allies.




This is how we won the Cold War and it’s how we will win our new future strugg
les, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become presid
ent.






First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. C
ontaining the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the
 United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military forc
e, but it’s also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold 
War.


In this, we’re going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim 
world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and every
thing else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.


We should work — thank you.






We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the 
rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be go
od to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It’s n
ow two-way. And remember, us and all we’re doing, they have to appreciate what
 we’ve done to them. We’re going to help, but they have to appreciate what w
e’ve done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our
 homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with t
errorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. 
We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have
 no idea where these people are coming from. There’s no documentation. There
s no paperwork. There’s nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.


A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or fran
kly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and Septem
ber 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest mili
tary catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because 
you take a look at what’s happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to 
the military being attacked — one of the true great catastrophes.


And then there’s ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are number
ed. I won’t tell them where and I won’t tell them how. We must...






... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We te
ll everything. We’re sending troops. We tell them. We’re sending something e
lse. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be u
npredictable starting now.


But they’re going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I’m elected president. An
d they’ll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.






Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chin
ese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what’s happen
ed to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed 
to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has t
o happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in
 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272
 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller
 than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older
 than virtually everybody in this room.


And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense bu
dget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 
2011. Our military is depleted and we’re asking our generals and military lead
ers to worry about global warming.


We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single i
nvestment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment kn
own to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquesti
oned, by anybody and everybody.


But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mountin
g debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the
 problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we wa
ste. We’re also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic po
licies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.




This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and h
igher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nati
on, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart a
bout areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us
 an edge.


This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great co
untry also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I
 mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the be
st equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And 
the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home 
to civilian life. Our veterans...






Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people 
and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and t
hat will happen under the Trump administration.






Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesse
s do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do cou
ntries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 
— and this was a horrible time for us — were attacked. and 17 brave sailors 
were killed on the U.S.S. Cole.


And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the Worl
d Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Fra
nkly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even had a
n opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn’t do it


And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst
 attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on
 America’s core national security interests. And the following will be my prio
rities.


In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists a
nd promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted ab
out the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, w
e have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to be
 smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not h
elp them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our f
riends.






We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have se
rious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, b
ut we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on sha
red interests.


Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe a
n easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of stre
ngth only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this h
orrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both cou
ntries.


Some say the Russians won’t be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can’t
 make a deal under my administration, a deal that’s great — not good, great 
— for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the ta
ble. It’s as simple as that. We’re going to find out.


Fixing our relations with China is another important step — and really toward 
creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by 
letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never 
before, we have lost all of their respect.


We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way
 quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an Ameri
ca that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look 
at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be doin
g it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can bot
h go our separate ways. If need be, that’s what’s going to have to happen.


After I’m elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allie
s and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not onl
y discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how w
e can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we 
will discuss how we can upgrade NATO’s outdated mission and structure, grown o
ut of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Is
lamic terrorism.






I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But i
f America fights, it must only fight to win.






I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely
 necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.






Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achie
ve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign polic
y. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we’ve had the exact opposite —
 a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path
 of destruction in its wake.


After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far
 worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to ex
plain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a comple
te and total disaster.


I will also be prepared to deploy America’s economic resources. Financial leve
rage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selecti
vely and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do not play 
by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and en
emies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in t
he sand. Believe me.






However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not
 be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A sup
erpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strengt
h. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, ve
ry proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sad
ly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is sy
stematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves
, something it has wanted to do for decades.


And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy t
hat will endure for several generations. That’s why I also look and have to lo
ok for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surroun
ding myself with those who have perfect résumés but very little to brag about 
except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses
 at war. We have to look to new people.






We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don’t kno
w what they’re doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The Ne
w York Times or being watched on television.


Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institut
ions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or 
wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilizatio
n and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the wo
rld than military interventions.






These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans
, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and all
ies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abro
ad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friend
s and when old friends become allies, that’s what we want. We want them to be 
our allies.


We want the world to be — we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destru
ction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the sing
le biggest problem that we have today in the world.


To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its 
leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more i
nterested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their 
own. Americans.






Americans must know that we’re putting the American people first again on trad
e.






So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and secu
rity of the American worker will always be my first priority.






No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both o
ur friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fa
ir to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country 
or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true 
foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions tha
t tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.






And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that
 reduces our ability to control our own affairs.






NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has em
ptied our states — literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our j
obs. And I’ve just gotten to see it. I’ve toured Pennsylvania. I’ve toured
 New York. I’ve toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Thei
r manufacturing is gone.


Never again, only the reverse — and I have to say this strongly — never agai
n; only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. Th
ere will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to 
exploit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United States
. There will be consequences for those companies. Never again.


Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that thei
r needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.






I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests.
 I will be America’s greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not ap
ologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique herit
age that makes us who we are.


The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. Americ
a will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We will alw
ays help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must ma
ke America strong again.






And always — always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from ever
y angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must ma
ke America truly wealthy again. And we must — we have to and we will make Amer
ica great again. And if we do that — and if we do that, perhaps this century c
an be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you
 very much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.


SPEECH 3


A hand with little fingers coming out of a stem. Like, little. Look at my hands.
 They’re fine. Nobody other than Graydon Carter years ago used to use that. My
 hands are normal hands. During a debate, he was losing, and he said, "Oh, he ha
s small hands and therefore, you know what that means." This was not me. This wa
s Rubio that said, "He has small hands and you know what that means." Okay? So, 
he started it. So, what I said a couple of days later ... and what happened is I
 was on line shaking hands with supporters, and one of supporters got up and he 
said, "Mr. Trump, you have strong hands. You have good-sized hands." And then an
other one would say, "You have great hands, Mr. Trump, I had no idea." I said, "
What do you mean?" He said, "I thought you were like deformed, and I thought you
 had small hands." I had fifty people ... Is that a correct statement? I mean pe
ople were writing, "How are Mr. Trump’s hands?" My hands are fine. You know, m
y hands are normal. Slightly large, actually. In fact, I buy a slightly smaller 
than large glove, okay? No, but I did this because everybody was saying to me, "
Oh, your hands are very nice. They are normal." So Rubio, in a debate, said, bec
ause he had nothing else to say ... now I was hitting him pretty hard. He wanted
 to do his Don Rickles stuff and it didn’t work out. Obviously, it didn’t wo
rk too well. But one of the things he said was "He has small hands and therefore
, you know what that means, he has small something else." You can look it up. I 
didn’t say it.


 I don’t want people to go around thinking that I have a problem. I’m tellin
g you, Ruth, I had so many people. I would say 25, 30 people would tell me ... e
very time I’d shake people’s hand, "Oh, you have nice hands." Why shouldn’
t I? And, by the way, by saying that I solved the problem. Nobody questions ... 
I even held up my hands, and said, "Look, take a look at that hand."


  I don’t know if it was presidential, honestly, whether it is or not. He said
, ‘Donald Trump has small hands and therefore he has small something else.’ 
I didn’t say that. And all I did is when he failed, when he was failing, when 
he was, when Christie made him look bad, I gave him the– a little recap and I 
said, and I said, and I had this big strong powerful hand ready to grab him, bec
ause I thought he was going to faint. And everybody took it fine. Whether it was
 presidential or not I can’t tell you. I can just say that what he said was a 
lie. And everybody, they wanted to do stories on my hands; after I said that, th
ey never did. And then I held up the hand, I showed people the hand. You know, w
hen I’ve got a big audience. So yeah, I think it’s not a question of preside
ntial ...


SPEECH 4


  Oh boy. We love Nevada. We love Nevada. Thank you. Thank you. Oh this is a gre
at place. Thank you very much. Great evening. We will be celebrating for a long 
time tonight. Have a good time. Have a good time.
You know we weren’t expecting—a couple of months ago, we weren’t expecting
 to win this one, you know that, right? We weren’t. Of course if you listen to
 the pundits, we weren’t expected to win too much, and now we’re winning, wi
nning, winning the country. And soon the country’s going to start winning, win
ning, winning. So I want to thank the volunteers. They’ve been unbelievable. T
hese people, they work like endlessly, endlessly. We’re not going to forget it
. And we’ve had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers co
ming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks lat
er Florida. We love Florida so. We’re going to do very well in Ohio. We’re b
eating the governor. It’s always nice to be beating the governor. And Michigan
—the whole thing. It’s going to be an amazing two months.
We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. So tonight we had 45
 to 46%, and tomorrow you’d hear them say, you know, if they could just take t
he other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you kn
ow the other candidates amount to 55%. So if they could—they keep forgetting t
hat when people drop out, we’re going to get a lot of votes. You know they kee
p forgetting.
So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making 
speeches. He’s getting better than me so I’m a little jealous. And Don went 
to _____, you were all over, right?
He loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of th
em, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks. Nobody loves it more than 
us, so just remember that.
And Corey and Hope, the staff, the whole group, and Charles and Dan and what a g
roup we have. I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, th
e owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, stand up. Great guy.
 Phil said, "Donald,"—like for the last three months he’s driving me crazy, 
he said—"Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign." I said, "Phil 
I don’t want your money. I don’t want to do it. I’m self funding." Every t
ime I see him. It’s hard for me to turn down money because that’s what I’v
e done in my whole life. I grab and grab and grab. You know I get greedy. I want
 money, money.
I’ll tell you what we’re going to do, right? We get greedy, right? Now we’
re going to get greedy for the United States. We’re going to grab and grab and
 grab. We’re going to bring in so much money and so much everything. We’re g
oing to make America great again, folks, I’m telling you folks, we’re going 
to make America great again.
And another great friend of mine, someone respected by everybody, a great friend
 of Phil too—Mr. and Mrs. Steve Wynn. Stand up, Steve. Stand up. Two great peo
ple. Steve is always calling. He’s always got advice, right Steve? "Donald I t
hink you should do this and that." His advice I like to listen to, I’ll be hon
est. So Phil and Steve and families, we appreciate it. You’ve been great frien
ds. Thank you, thank you.
So this was very exciting tonight. But I’ll tell you it looks like we won by a
 lot evangelicals. I love evangelicals, and I have to tell you pastor [Robert] J
effress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. He has been great. A
nd as you know Liberty University—do we love Liberty University? Huh? Jerry Fa
lwell Jr., an unbelievable guy, and he has been with us and with us from the beg
inning, and I want to thank Jerry and his family. It’s been amazing, the relat
ionship. So we won the evangelicals.
We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poo
rly educated. I love the poorly educated. We’re the smartest people, we’re t
he most loyal people, and you know what I’m happy about? Because I’ve been s
aying it for a long time. 46% were the Hispanics—46%, No. 1 one with Hispanics
. I’m really happy about that.
So I’m very proud of you, this is an amazing night. I love the country, I love
 the country. We’re going in the wrong direction. We’re going to keep—as y
ou know Gitmo, we’re keeping that open, and we’re going to load it up with b
ad dudes. We’re going to load it up w a lot of bad dudes out there. We’re go
ing to have our borders nice and strong. We’re going to build the wall, you kn
ow that. We’re going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect from Mexic
o, and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you Mexico is going to p
ay for the wall, right? It’s going to happen. It’s going to happen. They kno
w it. I know it. We all know it.
We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. They’ll pay
 for the wall. They’ll be very happy about it. Believe me. I’ll talk to them
. They’re going to be very, very thrilled. They’re going to be thrilled to b
e paying for the wall.
We’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the people that ge
t pushed around all over the place. We’re going to be the smart people. You’
re going to be proud of your president, and you’re going to be even prouder of
 your country, OK?
So tonight folks, this was a great evening. I love this place. I love this state
. I love Las Vegas. I have spent and invested so much money over here. Trump Int
ernational Hotel—I keep telling Steve we have the best hotel in Las Vegas. He
s fighting me all the time. But that’s OK. But I just want to say it’s a g
reat state, and they have great people. And I was so proud. You know, I went to 
caucus. I was all over the place tonight. The people are amazing. The enthusiasm
, it was unbelievable to see.
The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. R
emember: Make America great again. We’re going to do it, and it’s going to h
appen fast. Thank you very much everybody. We love you. We love you.


SPEECH 5


Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands.


So nice, thank you very much. That’s really nice. Thank you. It’s great to b
e at Trump Tower. It’s great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it’s a
n honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody’s expectations. There
s been no crowd like this.


And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn’t know the ai
r-conditioner didn’t work. They sweated like dogs.






They didn’t know the room was too big, because they didn’t have anybody ther
e. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don’t think it’s gonna happen.






Our country is in serious trouble. We don’t have victories anymore. We used to
 have victories, but we don’t have them. When was the last time anybody saw us
 beating, let’s say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the
 time. All the time.


When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, a
nd what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn
t exist, folks. They beat us all the time.


When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity
. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me.
 But they’re killing us economically.


The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems.


SPEECH 6


Thank you. It’s true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends
 its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They
re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and th
ey’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bri
nging crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.


oh And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They’re sending
 us not the right people.


It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin
 America, and it’s coming probably — probably — from the Middle East. But 
we don’t know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don
’t know what’s happening. And it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast
.


Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They’ve beco
me rich. I’m in competition with them.


They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When
 I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don’t have to pay interest, bec
ause they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should’ve taken.


So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don’t have, Iran has. And in 19 — and
 I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said — and I 
love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we’ve ever h
ad, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, "Don’t hit Iraq," because y
ou’re going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over
 the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out tha
t Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they
re taking it over big league.


We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands
 in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love — they’re great — a
ll over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.


And we have nothing. We can’t even go there. We have nothing. And every time w
e give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave i
t.


Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees — these are big vehicles — were left behind 
for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated v
ehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product — a sign of str
ength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It’s n
ever below zero.


Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP belo
w zero, horrible labor participation rate.


And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don’t believe the
 5.6. Don’t believe it.


That’s right. A lot of people up there can’t get jobs. They can’t get jobs
, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs.
 They all have jobs.


But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21
 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it’s a statistic that’s full of
 nonsense.


Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country ar
e getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn’t work.


It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don’t know
 if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television
, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that 
look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that t
ruly has no clue. They don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what
 they’re doing."


We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.


Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 5
5 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor
, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it’s v
irtually useless. It’s virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember
 the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it 
doesn’t work. A $5 billion Web site.


If and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which as everyone knows is ISIS’s
 ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and pra
yed that Donald Trump would have been President because this would not have happ
ened. ISIS would have been eradicated unlike what is happening now with our all 
talk, no action politicians.


The Mexican government and its leadership has made many disparaging remarks abou
t me to the Pope, because they want to continue to rip off the United States, bo
th on trade and at the border, and they understand I am totally wise to them. Th
e Pope only heard one side of the story - he didn’t see the crime, the drug tr
afficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the Unit
ed States. He doesn’t see how Mexican leadership is outsmarting President Obam
a and our leadership in every aspect of negotiation.


For a religious leader to question a person’s faith is disgraceful. I am proud
 to be a Christian and as President I will not allow Christianity to be consiste
ntly attacked and weakened, unlike what is happening now, with our current Presi
dent. No leader, especially a religious leader, should have the right to questio
n another man’s religion or faith. They are using the Pope as a pawn and they 
should be ashamed of themselves for doing so, especially when so many lives are 
involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.


I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do
 a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing’
s gonna get done. They will not bring us — believe me — to the promised land
. They will not.


As an example, I’ve been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow 
Republicans. And they’re wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to su
pport them. They don’t know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. 
I’m meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don’t know — "Ar
e you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? H
ow do we do it?"


I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don’t talk jobs and they don
t talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They’re 
devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn’t believe. It makes it imp
ossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They’re killing us.


But you don’t hear that from anybody else. You don’t hear it from anybody el
se. And I watch the speeches.
Thank you.


I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon w
ill set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, "What
’s going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don’t need the rhetoric
. I want a job."


And that’s what’s happening. And it’s going to get worse, because remember
, Obamacare really kicks in in ’16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing gol
f. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I
 have the best courses in the world, so I’d say, you what, if he wants to — 
I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he’d like t
o play, that’s fine.






In fact, I’d love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing
.






But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly d
estructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who’s a doctor, and he said 
to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accounta
nts than I have nurses. It’s a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. Th
ey had a plan that was good. They have no plan now."


We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be — and — and it can be replaced wi
th something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better
 and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.
So I’ve watched the politicians. I’ve dealt with them all my life. If you ca
n’t make a good deal with a politician, then there’s something wrong with yo
u. You’re certainly not very good. And that’s what we have= representing us.
 They will never make America great again. They don’t even have a chance. They
’re controlled fully — they’re controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the d
onors, and by the special interests, fully.


Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyi
sts that can produce anything for me. They’re great. But you know what? it won
’t happen. It won’t happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some pe
ople, but for this country, it’s destroying our country. We have to stop, and 
it has to stop now.


We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing,
 can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been aban
doned.






And we also need a cheerleader.


You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I thin
k he’ll do well. I think he’ll be a great cheerleader for the country. I thi
nk he’d be a great spirit."


He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerlea
der.


He’s not a leader. That’s true. You’re right about that.


But he wasn’t a cheerleader. He’s actually a negative force. He’s been a n
egative force. He wasn’t a cheerleader; he was the opposite.


We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great 
again. It’s not great again.


We need — we need somebody — we need somebody that literally will take this 
country and make it great again. We can do that.






And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They’re sayin
g, "Dad, you’re going to do something that’s going to be so tough."


You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that a truly successful person, a really,
 really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public off
ice. Just can’t happen. And yet that’s the kind of mindset that you need to 
make this country great again.


So ladies and gentlemen...






I am officially running...






... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country gre
at again.






It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.


We have people that aren’t working. We have people that have no incentive to w
ork. But they’re going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social 
program is a job. And they’ll be proud, and they’ll love it, and they’ll m
ake much more than they would’ve ever made, and they’ll be — they’ll be 
doing so well, and we’re going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can h
appen.






I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.






I’ll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many pla
ces. I’ll bring back our jobs, and I’ll bring back our money.


Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than tha
t. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan 
us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so t
heir deal’s even better.


How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to ha
ppen? How stupid are they?






I’m going to tell you — thank you. I’m going to tell you a couple of stori
es about trade, because I’m totally against the trade bill for a number of rea
sons.


Number one, the people negotiating don’t have a clue. Our president doesn’t 
have a clue. He’s a bad negotiator.


He’s the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terroris
ts that everybody wanted over there.


We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the fi
ve people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battl
efield trying to kill us. That’s the negotiator we have.


Take a look at the deal he’s making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel mayb
e won’t exist very long. It’s a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But
...
So we need people — I’m a free trader. But the problem with free trade is yo
u need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don’t have talented
 people, if you don’t have great leadership, if you don’t have people that k
now business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contr
ibution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free t
rade terrible.


Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that ar
e stupid. We have people that aren’t smart. And we have people that are contro
lled by special interests. And it’s just not going to work.


So, here’s a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great 
manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and
 I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because t
hey devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody
 thought they could do it again.


But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything —
 everything, they got away with it again. And it’s impossible for our people h
ere to compete.


So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who’s a great manufacturer,
 calls me up a few weeks ago. He’s very upset. I said, "What’s your problem?
"


He said, "You know, I make great product."


And I said, "I know. I know that because I buy the product."


He said, "I can’t get it into China. They won’t accept it. I sent a boat ove
r and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked a
bout all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."


I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that’s terrible. Does anyone know this?"


He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."


I said, "They send it back?"


"Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They’r
e not supposed to be doing that. I told them."


Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things o
ver there.


Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeing’s secrets. They wanted their patents and all th
eir secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.


Hey, I’m not saying they’re stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for — 
I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed t
o dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue
 of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable.


I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their 
United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love 
China. People say, "Oh, you don’t like China?"


No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can
’t sustain ourself with that. There’s too much — it’s like — it’s li
ke take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high scho
ol football team. That’s the difference between China’s leaders and our lead
ers.


They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We’re rebuilding many countries.
 China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like i
t. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small pota
toes. And they’re all over the place.


We have all the cards, but we don’t know how to use them. We don’t even know
 that we have the cards, because our leaders don’t understand the game. We cou
ld turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.


Now they’re going militarily. They’re building a military island in the midd
le of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do th
at because we’d have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist 
wouldn’t let our country — we would never build in an ocean. They built it i
n about one year, this massive military port.


They’re building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a p
roblem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China.


And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexi
co.


So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, "That’s a terrible story.
 I hate to hear it."


But I have another one, Ford.


So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, r
ips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street 
Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It’s going in and that
’s going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.TRUMP: All 
of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces t
hey’re not going to Tennessee. They’re gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexic
o instead. Not good.


Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion c
ar and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion, it’s going
 to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company.


So I announced that I’m running for president. I would...






... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in — and I 
wouldn’t even use — you know, I have — I know the smartest negotiators in 
the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.


You get a lot of them that are overrated. They’re not good. They think they ar
e. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph). But they’
re not good.


But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Be
lieve me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well.


But I wouldn’t even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of F
ord, who I know. If I was president, I’d say, "Congratulations. I understand t
hat you’re building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you’r
e going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow
 them across the border."


And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right? "How does that help us?
 Where is that good"? It’s not.


So I would say, "Congratulations. That’s the good news. Let me give you the ba
d news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that
 comes across the border, we’re going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that
 tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that’s it.


Now, here’s what is going to happen. If it’s not me in the position, it’s 
one of these politicians that we’re running against, you know, the 400 people 
that we’re (inaudible). And here’s what’s going to happen. They’re not s
o stupid. They know it’s not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. B
ut then they’re going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobby
ist for Ford and say, "You can’t do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of m
e and I take care of you, and you can’t do that to Ford."


And guess what? No problem. They’re going to build in Mexico. They’re going 
to take away thousands of jobs. It’s very bad for us.


So under President Trump, here’s what would happen:






The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them
 the bad news. But it could be he’d want to be cool, and he’ll wait until th
e next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.


And he’ll say, "Please, please, please." He’ll beg for a little while, and I
’ll say, "No interest." Then he’ll call all sorts of political people, and I
’ll say, "Sorry, fellas. No interest," because I don’t need anybody’s mone
y. It’s nice. I don’t need anybody’s money.


I’m using my own money. I’m not using the lobbyists. I’m not using donors.
 I don’t care. I’m really rich. I (inaudible).






And by the way, I’m not even saying that in a — that’s the kind of mindset
, that’s the kind of thinking you need for this country.
So — because we got to make the country rich.


It sounds crass. Somebody said, "Oh, that’s crass." It’s not crass.


We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems.


We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapon
s that are obsolete.


We’ve got nothing. We’ve got Social Security that’s going to be destroyed 
if somebody like me doesn’t bring money into the country. All these other peop
le want to cut the hell out of it. I’m not going to cut it at all; I’m going
 to bring money in, and we’re going to save it.






But here’s what’s going to happen:


After I’m called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns,
 after I’m called by all of the special interests and by the — the donors an
d by the lobbyists — and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero — I’
ll get a call the next day from the head of Ford. He’ll say. "Please reconside
r," I’ll say no.


He’ll say, "Mr. President, we’ve decided to move the plant back to the Unite
d States, and we’re not going to build it in Mexico." That’s it. They have n
o choice. They have no choice.


There are hundreds of things like that. I’ll give you another example.TRUMP: S
audi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Ma
ny are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have p
roblems, we send over the ships. We say "we’re gonna protect." What are we doi
ng? They’ve got nothing but money.


If the right person asked them, they’d pay a fortune. They wouldn’t be there
 except for us.


And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago
, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody 
got out — and they kept our equipment.


They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They alw
ays keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it wo
uld be — we ought to send our surplus. We’re always losing this gorgeous bra
nd-new stuff.


But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people
 are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They;re gone.


And I’m the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, a
ll of these politicians that I’m running against now — it’s so nice to say
 I’m running as opposed to if I run, if I run. I’m running.






But all of these politicians that I’m running against now, they’re trying to
 disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the q
uestion on Iraq. He couldn’t answer the question. He didn’t know. I said, "I
s he intelligent?"


Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thi
ng or bad thing? He didn’t know. He couldn’t answer the question.


How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna — how are we gonna go bac
k and make it great again? We can’t. They don’t have a clue. They can’t le
ad us. They can’t. They can’t even answer simple questions. It was terrible.


But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other thing
s, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, 
and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cart
el kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They w
ere smarter than our leaders.


There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and t
herefore make it great again. Because we need money. We’re dying. We’re dyin
g. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.


So Ford will come back. They’ll all come back. And I will say this, this is go
ing to be an election, in my opinion, that’s based on competence.


So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice p
erson. How can you get people to vote for you?"


I said, "I don’t know." I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person. 
I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I’m actually
 a very nice person."


But, I said, "This is going to be an election that’s based on competence, beca
use people are tired of these nice people. And they’re tired of being ripped o
ff by everybody in the world. And they’re tired of spending more money on educ
ation than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and
 we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And som
e of them are like third world countries. But we’re becoming a third word coun
try, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one 
of the things I did, and I said, you know what I’ll do. I’ll do it. Because 
a lot of people said, "He’ll never run. Number one, he won’t want to give up
 his lifestyle."


They’re right about that, but I’m doing it.


Number two, I’m a private company, so nobody knows what I’m worth. And the o
ne thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of 
governmental authorities your net worth.


So I said, "That’s OK." I’m proud of my net worth. I’ve done an amazing jo
b.


I started off — thank you — I started off in a small office with my father i
n Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said — and I love my father. I learned so
 much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet pla
ying with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a
 lot.


But he used to say, "Donald, don’t go into Manhattan. That’s the big leagues
. We don’t know anything about that. Don’t do it."


I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta d
o it, Dad. I’ve gotta do it."


And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lo
t of great deals — the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention
 center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and y
oung. And now I’m building all over the world, and I love what I’m doing.


But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never 
run, and one of the main reasons is he’s private and he’s probably not as su
ccessful as everybody thinks."


So I said to myself, you know, nobody’s ever going to know unless I run, becau
se I’m really proud of my success. I really am.






I’ve employed — I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime
. That means medical. That means education. That means everything.


So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, beca
use it’s big and complex, and they’ve put together a statement, a financial 
statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the gove
rnment, and we don’t extensions or anything. We’ll be filing it right on tim
e. We don’t need anything.






And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had asset
s of $9 billion." So I said (ph), "No, that’s the wrong number. That’s the w
rong number. Not assets."


So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it th
e old-fashioned way. It’s real estate. You know, it’s real estate.


It’s labor, and it’s unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren
t in unions, and it’s all over the place and building all over the world.


And I have assets — big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected — 
9 billion 240 million dollars.


And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph). That’s long-term debt, very
 low interest rates.


In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you don’t have eno
ugh borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion"? I said, "I don’t need it. I don
’t want it. And I’ve been there. I don’t want it."


But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth,
 and now with the increase, it’ll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total 
net worth of — net worth, not assets, not — a net worth, after all debt, aft
er all expenses, the greatest assets — Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the America
s, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred
 to as the Trump building right opposite the New York — many other places all 
over the world.


So the total is $8,737,540,00.


Now I’m not doing that...






I’m not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don’t have to brag. I d
on’t have to, believe it or not.


I’m doing that to say that that’s the kind of thinking our country needs. We
 need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.


We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don’t have it. We have peo
ple that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down 
the drain.


So I put together this statement, and the only reason I’m telling you about it
 today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another thr
ee or four years — you know, we’re at $8 trillion now. We’re soon going to
 be at $20 trillion.TRUMP: According to the economists — who I’m not big bel
ievers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they’re saying — that $24 trillio
n — we’re very close — that’s the point of no return. $24 trillion. We w
ill be there soon. That’s when we become Greece. That’s when we become a cou
ntry that’s unsalvageable. And we’re gonna be there very soon. We’re gonna
 be there very soon.


I will immediately terminate President Obama’s illegal executive order on immi
gration, immediately.






Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.






Now, it’s very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, ve
ry hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vic
ious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on televis
ion this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other
 people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always
 was against guns. I didn’t want guns. And now since this happened" — it’s
 up in the prison area — "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because h
e wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We’re ready to start shoo
ting."


I said, "Very interesting."


So protect the Second Amendment.






End — end Common Core. Common Core should — it is a disaster. Bush is totall
y in favor of Common Core. I don’t see how he can possibly get the nomination.
 He’s weak on immigration. He’s in favor of Common Core. How the hell can yo
u vote for this guy? You just can’t do it. We have to end — education has to
 be local.


Rebuild the country’s infrastructure.


Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way 
below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.


I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build thos
e things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.


You know, we’re building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we’re 
converting it into one of the world’s great hotels. It’s gonna be the best h
otel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in W
ashington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought af
ter — or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the 
history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it.


Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we’re really good. Number two, we 
had a really good plan. And I’ll add in the third, we had a great financial st
atement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and 
talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it 
got built.


So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airport
s. You come into La Guardia Airport, it’s like we’re in a third world countr
y. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, a
nd they throw.


You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in fro
m China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they h
ave the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country 
and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have t
o rebuild our infrastructure.


Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.






Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have b
een paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You sa
ve it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all o
f the money that’s being lost.


Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.


Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we’re in a bubble. We ha
ve artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has be
en good to me, but I still hate to see what’s happening. We have a stock marke
t that is so bloated.


Be careful of a bubble because what you’ve seen in the past might be small pot
atoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.


And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.


SPEECH 7




Chris, thank you very much. I appreciate it.
This has been an amazing evening. Already, we’ve won five major states and it 
looks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.


It’s really been — it’s really been great.
I want to congratulation Ted on the winning of Texas. He worked hard on he — I
 know how hard he worked actually, and so I congratulate Ted Cruz on that win. T
hat was an excellent win.
We’re going to make America great again, folks. We’re going to make it great
 again.
And, you know, I watched Hillary’s speech and she’s talking about wages have
 been poor and everything’s poor and everything’s doing badly, but we’re g
oing to make it — she’s been there for so long. I mean, if she hasn’t stra
ightened it out by now, she’s not going to straighten it out in the next four 
years. It’s just going to become worse and worse. She wants to make America wh
ole again and I’m trying to figure out what is that all about. Make America gr
eat again is going to be much better than making America whole again.
So I just want to say that this was an exciting evening. It’s so great to be i
n Florida. It’s so great to be at Mar-A-Lago with friends and the press and th
e media and everybody.


I know it was a very tough night for Marco Rubio. He had a tough night but he wo
rked hard. He spent a lot of money. He is a lightweight, as I’ve said many tim
es before. But you know what? We’re going to go to Florida, we’re going to s
pend so much time in Florida. We’ve got about a 20-point lead. I know that a l
ot of groups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the 
people that want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, they’re
 going to put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from w
hat just came over the wires. And frankly, I think that’s fine. As far as I’
m concerned, it’s fine. And if he wins, they’ll have totally controlled — 
total control. But he’s not going anywhere anyway, but we’ll see what happen
s. But we’re going to spend a lot of time in Florida.
The Virginia one was just a great win because it’s a place that is just specta
cular and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in Florida. Rememb
er, we have thousands of employees in Florida, all along Miami, Doral and Mar-A-
Lago and so many other places. And it’s been an amazing place to invest. It’
s been amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here ton
ight, really urging us on.
And you know, I have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all 
over the world but for purposes of tonight, we’ll just say all over the countr
y. And it’s been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it 
grow so strongly.
Recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we 
want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. I mean, our n
ation is in serious trouble. We’re being chilled on trade, absolutely destroye
d. China is just taking advantage of us. I have nothing against China. I have gr
eat respect for China, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Our lead
ers don’t have a clue and the trade deficits at $400 billion and $500 are too 
much. No country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. It won’t be that way 
for long. We have the greatest business leaders in the world on my team already 
and, believe me, we’re going to redo those trade deals and it’s going to be 
a thing of beauty.
You look at countries like Mexico, where they’re killing us on the border, abs
olutely destroying us on the border. They’re destroying us in terms of economi
c development. Companies like Carrier Air Conditioner just moving into Mexico. F
ord, moving into Mexico. Nabisco, closing up shop in Chicago and moving into Mex
ico. We have to stop it, folks. I know how to stop it. We’re going to create j
obs. We’re going to create jobs like you’ve never seen.
We’re going to lower taxes. I have a plan that Larry Kudlow and so many others
 think is the best plan they’ve seen. We’re going to lower taxes substantial
ly for the middle class. The middle class has been forgotten in our country. It 
really helped and really probably was the predominant factor in making our count
ry into a country that we all love so much and we’re all so proud of, but we
ve forgotten the middle class. So we’re going to lower taxes.
We’re lowering taxes on business. You look at all the companies that are movin
g out. When you see Pfizer moving to Ireland and you see so many other companies
, constantly now they’re leaving. They used to move from New York to Florida, 
or they’d move from New Jersey to someplace else, Chris. But now they’re mov
ing from here —  — not that many people are leaving New Jersey. But Chris un
derstands the problem, fully understands. Now they’re leaving from places that
 they used to move to into other parts of the world. We can’t let that happen.
We’ve lost our manufacturing jobs. We’ve lost our manufacturing. Millions an
d millions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants, manufacturi
ng plants, warehouses. I mean, we are losing so much. We can’t let it happen.
I tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business 
and he always orders Caterpillar. And recently, he ordered Komatsu tractors from
 Japan because they’ve cut the yen. They’ve devalued the yen to such an exte
nt that it was virtually impossible for Caterpillar to compete. And I don’t wa
nt that to happen. That’s not going to happen. They shouldn’t be allowed to 
do it.
We have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. We hav
e great, great power. The problem is we have politicians who truly, truly, truly
 don’t know what they’re doing. So we’re going to work very, very hard.
I’m so honored by this evening. If you would’ve told me on June 16th, when I
 was with my wife, Melania, and we came down the escalator in Trump Tower and it
 looked, literally, well, a little bit like this. You have a lot of cameras here
 tonight.


It looked, literally, like the Academy Awards. I never saw so many cameras in my
 life. And it takes courage to run. I’ll tell you what, it takes a lot of cour
age to run for president. I’ve never done this before. I’ve been a job-produ
cer. I’ve done a lot of things but this is something I’ve never done, but I 
felt we had to do it. When you look at the incompetence of the Iran deal, where 
we give $150 billion, we get absolutely nothing. When you look at all of the pro
blems our country has and you look at our military, which is really being deplet
ed rapidly, depleted. We’re going to make our military bigger and better and s
tronger than ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, f
olks, nobody.


So it’s just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. And if you want, pr
ess, I think we told you before we’d be okay if you want to ask a few question
s.
Yes, go ahead.


Well, they can always do that and then they’ll — then they’ll just lose ev
erything and that would be the — that would be the work of a loser.
But let me just explain something. If you’ve seen what’s happened, whether y
ou go to South Carolina, where I had a huge victory, where we had a tremendous v
ictory in New Hampshire, tremendous in Nevada, you look at what’s happened, an
d tonight, of course, is the best of all. I mean, right now, they’re projected
 I guess six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. It’s Georg
ia, Alabama, Massachusetts — (CHEERS) — Tennessee, Virginia. And you know, t
hese are amazing states and we’re going to probably get a lot more. In fact, w
e’re projected to have some pretty good additional numbers.
But I will say this. Look, we have expanded the Republican Party. When you look 
at what’s happened in South Carolina and you see the kind of numbers that we g
ot, in terms of extra people coming in. They came from the Democratic Party, or 
the Democrat Party, and they’re Democrats and they’re long-time Democrats an
d they were never going to switch and they all switched. And they were independe
nts. And we’ve actually expanded the party. Look at the number of votes we had
 in that area, as an example. Four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. We d
oubled it. We were almost 800,000. Whereas the Democrats went down. There’s mu
ch less enthusiasm for the Democrats.
So I — look, I’m a unifier. I know people are going to find that a little bi
t hard to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. Once we get all of this finis
hed, I’m going to go after one person, that’s Hillary Clinton, on the assump
tion she’s allowed to run, which is a big assumption. I don’t know that she
s going to be allowed to run. And I think that’s, frankly, going to be an ea
sy race. You see the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. I know one thing. I do
n’t think Marco is going to be able to beat her. I don’t think — in all fa
irness, I think Ted’s going to have a very hard time. But Ted at least has a s
hot because at least he’s won a little bit.
So I just tell you this. We are going to be a much finer party, a much — we’
re going to be a unified party, I mean, to be honest with you. And we are going 
to be a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. We’re going to be a
 much bigger party. Our party is expanding. And all you have to do it take a loo
k at the primary states where I’ve won and just look — we’ve gone from X n
umber to a much larger number. That hasn’t happened to the Republican Party in
 many, many decades. So I think we’re going to be more inclusive. I think we
re going to be more unified and I think we’re going to be a much bigger party
, and I think we’re going to win in November. OK, yeah?


I’m just doing what’s right. Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good wor
k for some — for many, many — for millions of women. And I’ll say it and I
 know a lot of the so-called conservatives, they say that’s really — because
 I’m a conservative, but I’m a common-sense conservative. But millions of wo
men have been helped by Planned Parenthood. But we’re not going to allow and w
e’re not going to fund as long as you have the abortion going on at Planned Pa
renthood, and we understand that and I’ve said it loud and clear. But — and 
we’ll see what happens. But Planned Parenthood — millions of people — and 
I’ve had thousands of letters from women that have been helped. And this wasn
t a setup. This was people writing letters. I’m going to be really good for 
women. I’m going to be good for women’s health issues. It’s very important
 to me, very important to me.
 And maybe that’s not a perfect conservative view, but I can tell you one thin
g. I’m more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking care of our v
ets, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare and coming up with 
something much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of common core and bring
ing education to a local level so that you’re going to have good education for
 our children who are being absolutely starved for proper education.
So Sarah, I mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but I am a truth-tell
er and I will tell the truth, OK?
Yeah, go ahead, finish it.


I feel awfully good. I mean, I’m watching your people — I’m watching your 
people on — and I’m going to be very nice, I’m going to be very nice — I
’m watching your people on CNN and I’m watching the Fox people and I’m wat
ching the MSNBC people, too, OK? See? I’m becoming diplomatic.  And they are c
ertainly being very nice to me tonight. I mean, you know, they’re being very s
trong. And they are, they’re declaring Marco Rubio the big loser of the night,
 which is true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won anything, period.
And by the way, and I have to tell you — and he was very, very nasty. I’ve n
ever heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be so nasty, bu
t he’s got a right to be nasty. He hasn’t won anything and he’s not going 
to win very much.
But I do congratulate Ted because I know how hard Ted worked on Texas and it’s
 a big get. Now I also did very well in Texas. I came in second. And one of the 
things my son, Eric, told me, which I didn’t even realize, is that not only di
d I win most of the states — and some are coming in and I’m expected to win 
them — but I came in second — I came in no worse than second. So it wasn’t
 like I won and then I disappeared. The worst I had was a second. So I’m very,
 very honored by the turnout, OK?
Yes, go ahead.


Right. Oh, they’re totally wrong. Look, I disavowed. I disavowed when I — in
 fact, Chris is my number one — Chris gave me the honor of joining the campaig
n. He called me. He said, "Donald, what you’ve got is a movement." We spoke to
day in Kentucky. You’ve never seen a crowd like that. That had to be 20,000 pe
ople inside this massive convention center and it was incredible. And every plac
e we’re speaking, if we have 10,000 people it’s like a small group. We had 3
5,000 people the other day in Alabama. And when Chris called, he said this is a 
movement; this is something like I’ve never seen. And in all fairness to the p
ress, a lot of the press have said the same thing. They’ve never seen what’s
 happening right now. They’ve never seen anything like it. And I’m just hono
red by it.
Now, when Chris joined, we had a news conference and they asked me the exact sam
e question. I said I disavow. Now, right after the program that we’re talking 
about — and I thought it was clear, but you know, we’re talking about groups
, groups, groups. I do have to know the name of the group because, who knows? I 
mean, they have to give me the name of the group. But right after, when I review
ed it, I put out a tweet and I put out on Facebook that I totally disavow. Now e
verybody knew I did that but the press refused to look at that. It was right aft
er. And I disavowed then; I disavowed today on ABC with George Stephanopoulos, I
 disavowed again. I mean, how many times are you supposed to disavow? But I disa
vow and hopefully it’s the final time I have to do it. But if you look at Face
book and if you look at Twitter, right after the show I put out a statement beca
use I want everybody to be sure.
Yes, go ahead.


No, it’s not, but there is always going to be some negotiation, and it’s goi
ng to be a good negotiation, not a bad negotiation. It’s going to be a negotia
tion where we’ll start at certain levels and hopefully I will make a great dea
l, and lots of great deals, for the American people.
So you know, look, you can’t go around just signing our little notices that th
e president signs all the time, executive orders, he’s done executive order, e
xecutive order. It’s almost like, I don’t even know. Does he ever go a deal 
with Congress anymore? Does he ever speak to the Senate? Does he ever speak with
 congressmen and get them into a room and get things done?
You know, a good example of this, in all fairness, is something that I — is ve
ry, very important to me; corporate inversion. Carl Icahn, who’s a friend of m
ine who endorsed me, great businessman, he — it bothers him so much he calls m
e about it all the time, where we’re losing companies. And we’re losing for 
two reasons. We’re losing for a lot of reasons but the taxes are too high. We 
have the highest — we’re the highest taxed nation in the world.
And very importantly, they have trillions, for companies, trillions of dollars o
utside of this country. The Democrats agree it should be brought back in. The Re
publicans agree it should be brought back in. Everybody agrees it should be brou
ght back in. I could sit in a room — or the Oval Office — for a period of, l
iterally, a half hour and I really believe I could get everybody — every singl
e — you know, it’s one thing they don’t agree on health care or they don
t agree on common core or they don’t agree on other things and they’ll figh
t. Here’s something every single — I mean, almost everybody agrees. These tr
illions and trillions of dollars should be brought into the country.
The president can’t make a deal. The reason is he doesn’t know how to make a
 deal, probably doesn’t work at it, probably doesn’t care, but you’re talk
ing about tremendous number of — tremendous amounts of money. So when you have
 something that everybody wants and you can’t make a deal, there’s something
 going on that’s really wrong. And what it means is you have the wrong leader.
Yes?


Well, look, everything — we are going to have a wall. I can tell you we are go
ing to have a wall. I watched the ex-president of Mexico, the arrogance of this 
man. And I get along great with Hispanics. You saw in Nevada, I won in the poll,
 the Hispanic vote. I have thousands of people that work for me right now that a
re Hispanic. I’ve had thousands and thousands over my lifetime. These are grea
t people. The Mexican leaders are too smart for our leaders and you saw it. Vinc
ente Fox, first of all, he used a word that you should never have — if I ever 
used that word you folks would’ve never, ever, ever let me get away with it. N
obody even talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word. But he w
as angry at the concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the w
all. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of
 $58 billion a year — $58 billion. The wall is going to cost $10 billion. It
s so easy. I’ve had these guys that I’m on the stage with go you don’t re
ally mean Mexico is going to pay for the wall. One — as sure as you’re stand
ing there, 100 percent, Mexico’s going to pay, 100 percent.


And the reason is I’m a businessman. I know how to do this. Politicians are al
l talk, no action. It’s not going to — except for Chris Christie, of course.
  It’s not — look, it’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen wi
th these people.
So when you think of it — and then they say you’ll never be able to build a 
wall. Well, it’s 2,000 miles but we really need 1,000 miles. The Great Wall of
 China, built 2,000 years ago, is 13,000 miles, folks, and they didn’t have Ca
terpillar tractors, because I only want to use Caterpillar, if you want to know 
the truth, or John Deere. I buy a lot of equipment from John Deere. I love John 
Deere, too. But they didn’t have tractors. They didn’t have cranes. They did
n’t have excavation equipment. The wall is 13,000 miles long. We need 1,000 mi
les and we have all of the materials. We can do that so beautifully. And this is
 going to be a serious wall. This is going to be high wall. This is going to be 
a very serious wall.
We’re going to stop drugs from coming into New Hampshire. You know, when I won
 New Hampshire, those people were so incredible to me. And when you go, you woul
dn’t believe it because it’s so bucolic, so beautiful. You look at the field
s and you look at everything, it’s so beautiful. And yet, you go to a meeting 
in New Hampshire, their number one problem, their number one problem is heroine.
 The heroine is pouring in and they have so many of their young people and other
 people addicted. And I told them I’m going to stop it. I’m going to stop it
. We’re going to have a strong border, and I mean strong.
And by the way, speaking of people, people are going to come in and they’re go
ing to come into this country, but they’re going to come in legally, OK?


I’ve got to find out what’s going on. We’ve got a big problem. We have a b
ig, big problem. I’ll tell it like it is. We have a big, big problem. We’ve 
got to figure it out. We’re going to figure it out. Radical Islamic terrorism,
 big, big problem, not only for us. You take a look at Germany, you take a look 
at Sweden, you take a look at Brussels. You look at some of these places, it’s
 like a disaster. And we’re not going to allow people to come into our country
 who we have no idea who they are, we have no idea where they come from, they ha
ve no paperwork, they’re young and they’re strong. You look at that migratio
n line; they’re young, they’re strong, they’re powerful. And you say why a
ren’t they back fighting for their country?
Now, with all of that being said, I feel strongly — I have a bigger heart than
 anybody. We’re going to build a safe zone. It’s going to be in Syria. And I
’m going to get the Gulf states, who have more money than anybody — we’ve 
got to loosen up their wallets a little bit. We’re going to get — but they
re not accepting people. We’re going to get — wait, wait, wait. We’re goi
ng to get the Gulf states to pay for it because they should.


Oh, we’re going to bring them back. We’re going to bring them back. Look, I
m telling you — you know how I’m going to bring them back? First of all, w
e’re going to do great with the African- Americans, and you see that in the po
lls where I had in one poll where I’m 25 percent. And one of the commentators,
 who I think is standing right at the back of the room in the corner, said, you 
know, if Donald Trump gets 25 percent of the African-American vote, this electio
n is over. You watch. And the reason I’m getting that — and I’m going to d
o great with the Hispanics. I’m going to do great with virtually every group. 
The reason is I’m going to bring jobs back. I’m going to get Apple to start 
making their computers and their iPhones on our land, not in China. How does it 
help us when they make it in China?


Well, look, I always liked Marco until about a week ago when he decided to go ho
stile. He decided to become Don Rickles, OK? But Don Rickles has a lot more tale
nt. Honestly, I did, I always liked him but he became — you know, somebody tol
d him you’re losing very badly. The only way you can possibly win, take the ha
il Mary, they called it a hail Mary, the folks in the back, and go hostile. It
s hurt him. In fact, one of the newscasts tonight said he went down 15 or 20 pe
rcent. It’s really hurt him.
But look, I’m not going to tell him what to do. I’m not going to tell anybod
y what to do. You have to run. He had a bad night, according to CNN, Fox. I watc
hed their broadcasts. They say the loser of the night was Marco Rubio and it’s
 true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won. I mean, at least you can say t
hat Ted has won something, and you know, Marco has not won. You’ve got to be a
ble to win. You can’t talk. You know, these politicians, all talk, no action. 
You’ve got to be able to win something. He hasn’t won anything. And he actua
lly hasn’t come very close. So we’ll see what happens.
Yes, go ahead.


I’m going to be a good president for the world but we have a country that’s 
in big trouble. Our infrastructure is going to hell, our roads, our highways, ou
r schools, our hospitals, our airports. I go throughout the world. I mean, you g
o to Qatar, you go to — some people say Qatar, but you go to Qatar, you go to 
any of — so many places. You go to different places in China, different places
 in Asia, different places in the Middle East, you look at some of the airports 
they have. You look at the roadways they have. You look at the transportation sy
stems they have and the trains they have. We’re like a third world country.
So I am going to be very good for the world. I’m going to get along with the w
orld. You’re going to be very proud of me. Even you will be very proud of me a
s a president. But we have to rebuild our country. Our country is going to hell 
and people don’t understand that.
And Hillary Clinton doesn’t have a clue. She can’t do that. She’s talking 
about — I mean, one of the things that has really bothered me, I think one of 
the reasons I have such great support, is that people, you take a look, people i
n the middle-income groups are making less money today — less money than they 
made 12 years ago. And in her speech, she just said they’re making less money.
 Well, she’s been there with Obama for a long period of time. Why hasn’t she
 done anything about it? Practically everything that she was complaining about 
 she’s picked up what I say. The difference is she’s been there for a long
 period of time. Why haven’t they done anything about it?
Then you look at her record as secretary of State. It’s abysmal. You look at w
hat’s going on with Syria. You look at what’s going on with everything. It
s a disaster.
So we’re going to have an interesting period of time. I don’t know that she
s going to be allowed to run. What she did is a criminal act. If she’s allow
ed to run I would be very, very surprised. But if she’s allowed to run, honest
ly, it’ll be a sad day for this country because what she did was wrong. And wh
at she did — (CHEERS) — let me just tell you, what she did was wrong and oth
er people have done far less than her and they paid a very, very big price.
OK, one or two more questions. Yeah, go ahead, Jeremy


At this moment, absolutely not, no. We either have a country or we don’t. We h
ave a country, or we don’t. We have borders or we don’t have borders. And at
 this moment, the answer is absolutely not.


Well, look, I don’t expect — I have a lot of respect for Reince and for the 
group and I like the RNC and I don’t know that I’ve been treated fairly or n
ot. I really don’t know. I can’t tell you that. But I can tell you that I do
 respect them.
What I really have is a great number of people. I have millions and millions of 
people. And when I was watching this broadcast just a little while ago, before I
 came in here because I wanted to see exactly where we were before I started spe
aking, I was amazed at the kind of numbers. The Republicans have tremendous ener
gy. The Democrats don’t. They don’t have any energy. Their numbers are down.
 Our number are through the roof. And people are making the statements they’ve
 never seen, in modern times, a party that was so energized.
I think if somebody is doing as well as I’m doing — and I’m not just speak
ing for myself, whether it be me or anybody else — but if I’m going to win f
ive — I’ve already won five, but maybe it could be six, seven, eight, nine. 
It could be nine, could win nine states tonight. If I’m going to win all of th
ese states with tremendous numbers, and if I’m going to come in the worst is s
econd in the two or three that I might not win, I think, you know, we’re a dem
ocracy. I think it’s awfully hard to say that’s not the person we want to le
ad the party, right? You know, it’s very hard.
But I really think that — I think it’s a great question, David, because I re
ally think that one of the biggest things that everybody is seeing happening, an
d everybody, is the Republican Party has become more dynamic. It’s become more
 diverse. We’re taking from the Democrats. We’re taking from the independent
s. We have a lot more people. We have a lot more people. I mean, take a look at 
South Carolina. Look at the numbers. Look at the numbers from four years ago whe
n nobody even wanted to waste their time and vote. And then you look at — I wa
s there and you had lines that went a mile long. And it was virtually more than 
doubled.
So we have a very, very dynamic party and I think we’re going to be able to un
ify the party. I hope to be able to get along with everybody. I don’t know Pau
l Ryan well but I hope to be able to get along with him. I do know Mitch McConne
ll a little bit but I hope to be able to get along with him. But remember this. 
I have millions and millions and millions of people. This isn’t like it’s a 
close match. I mean, it’s only too bad that winner didn’t take all, because 
if winner took all, this thing is over. We’re just having a celebration.


You know, we’re having a celebration.
So anyway, I would like to — look, I just want to end by thanking everybody. T
his has been an amazing period in my life. My wife just called and Ivanka, as yo
u know, is going to be having a baby very soon and she’s a special person and 
it’s going to be great and we look forward to that. She’s back in New York. 
She wanted to be here. They all wanted to be here but they’re with Ivanka now 
and that could be, certainly, within the next week. But this this has been an am
azing period of time. It’s been amazing for me, even from an educational stand
point. And I think, honestly, we’ve done something that almost nobody thought 
could be done and I’m very proud of it.
And I just want to leave you with this. I am a unifier. I would love to see the 
Republican Party and everybody get together and unify. And when we unify, there
s nobody, nobody that’s going to beat us.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.


Thank you very much. Thank you.


SPEECH 8


This is so — so incredible. —


 We — we have had, no matter where we go — you know, it’s a movement, folk
s. This is a movement.






No matter where we go, it’s amazing. We go to Dallas. We go to Oklahoma. We go
 all over. We went to, the other night, Iowa — packed. Every place — New Ham
pshire, packed. Every place we go to, it’s like this. It’s amazing. And just
 great, great people.






And they actually had to tell over 3,000 people, "go home." We’ll come back. W
e’ll do another one. But they had to go home. Would you like to leave and we
ll let them come in? No?


I don’t think so, but we — they turned away a lot of people, which is too ba
d, actually. So maybe next time. I don’t know. I think this is the largest roo
m. I know it’s a record for the room.






You know, it has to be a record because every inch of the room is taken with peo
ple, and they’re standing. They’re not sitting. So that’s great. I love 
 we love setting records. We want the country to set records, right?






So, you know, I — I do this, and I love to do it. And I talk about our success
 because that’s ultimately what it’s all about. I think we’re going to do 
fantastically well in Iowa. I really think we’re going to do great there. And 
I could say, "Oh, gee, if we came in the top four of five." I’m not — I’m 
looking to win everything. We want to run the table. We want to run it, because 
that sends a signal.


And, you know, we’ve been a little bit — we had to respond to Hillary. She c
ame out with that — she came out — remember, she wrote — she said, "He’s
 got a — he’s demonstrated a penchant" — I demonstrated — "a penchant fo
r sexism." Can you believe it? Me? Nobody respects women more than Donald Trump.
 That I can tell you.






And, you know, when she said that, I had no choice, because I didn’t start it.
 I had no choice. And I did have to mention her husband’s situation. OK?


(Laughter)


And that is now the biggest story on television by a factor of 10. So, we have t
o do it. You can’t let people push you around. You can’t let people tell lie
s. You can’t do it.


 You know, it’s interesting. One of the polls came out from CNBC and they said
 that if it’s Trump against Hillary in the election, it will be the greatest v
oter turnout in the history of this country. I can see that. I can see it.






And they said all of these people that are going to come in new, that never vote
 — they never vote, they don’t care — they’re going to mostly — I’ll
 tell you what, they’re going to vote for Trump. That’s why they’re coming
 in, because they’re so fed up with the system — this corrupt, horrible syst
em. They’re fed up with it and they’re fed up with those guys back there, th
e media.


TRUMP: They are the worst.






No, no, no. They’re fed up. They’re fed up with the media. I mean, I’ve go
t — and you know, not all bad, but there’s so much dishonesty in the media. 
And I like to call it out. And one of the things that’s really been amazing to
 me, and such — it’s been so beautiful to watch — the level of genius in t
he public. They get it, you know? They really get it. They want to marginalize u
s, they want to do all of this and they want to make everybody look like, "Oh, g
ee."


The level of genius — they fully understand. They know they’re crooked, they
 know they’re dishonest and they really — otherwise, who gets worse publicit
y than me?


(Laughter)


And yet, I see a poll at 42 percent. And you know, you’re talking about 15, 16
 people, started with 17. How are you? Started with 17 people. And you know, I
d be happy with 42 if we had three, OK? Not thrilled, I’d like to be that —
 over that 50 mark, but I think we’re doing really well.


And you know, it’s interesting, but the debates — OK. So the debates — tha
nk — I love you too, darling.


(Laughter)


I love you. I do. I love you. I love every — you know what? The rooms, no matt
er where, whether it’s stadiums or big ballrooms like this one, it’s amazing
, and there’s love in the room. And I told — the other night, I said and a f
riend of mine, very, very successful guy who I would love to have negotiating ag
ainst China. That’s what we need, not these hacks that we have.






No, no. I have guys ...






Carl Icahn endorsed me. Great business man. We have — I have great, great busi
ness people that want to be involved. And we’re going to use — we have the b
est. We have the best in the world. We don’t use them. We use political hacks,
 we use special interest people that really don’t care about the country, they
 care about their deals.


This is going to change so fast. You know, last year, $500 billion trade deficit
 with China. Think about it. You know what $500 billion is? You do — you do $1
00 bills, you would fill the room to the ceiling, $500 billion deficit — trade
 deficit with China. What are we? Are we — yes, I guess the answer is certainl
y let’s not blame us.


Our leaders are stupid and — and/or — you have to say and/or they have deals
, because what’s happened is all of this money is being given to them by speci
al interests, by all of these people, including lobbyists, and these lobbyists m
ake our leaders do — our leaders, can you believe our leaders? This is what 
 but they make the leaders of our country do things that they don’t even want
 to do because they’ve given them tens and tens and tens of millions of dollar
s.


I look at this guy Jeb Bush. He spent $59 million on his campaign and he is down
 in the grave. He is nowhere. No, no. Think of it. It’s got to be much more th
an that. It was actually $59 million a while ago. Every time I turn on an add, I
 see an ad about Trump. I mean, it’s not that bad an ad either. It’s like 
 you know.






If you’re going to do an ad, do an ad. But he’s a low-energy person. Let’s
 face it. We don’t need low-energy. We need lots of energy.






But he spent — think of it. Think of it. He spent $59 million. I spent nothing
, right? Nothing.






Now, I’m going to be spending. You probably saw I’m going to spend — now, 
we’re going to start spending a lot of money because I don’t want to take an
y chances. You know, it’s — I love getting up — and for the last couple of
 months, I have been leading from practically the time I announced, right? And f
or the last — and leading a lot. I’m going to go over that because I go over
 (ph) polls. I love polls. I love polls.






Now, when they — if they turn negative, I don’t like them.






And I promise, if they turn negative, I’m not going to be talking about them. 
In fact, I get criticized all the time. You’re always talking about your polls
. One of these guys just got two. He’s at two. I’m at 42. And one of these g
uys who’s at two said, "He always talks about his polls and I don’t." I woul
dn’t either if I had two, I swear I wouldn’t.






I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t do it at all. But you know, I love to tell the story 
where I have spent nothing and Bush has spent $59 million, but much higher than 
that. That’s just — you know, because I see since then — I mean, just — 
you can’t turn on this television without these commercials. And Fox — every
 two minutes it’s a commercial on Trump.


You know what he did? It’s false advertising. So I killed him in the debate. A
ccording to Reuters, according to everybody, Drudge, who’s an amazing guy, by 
the way. If you don’t know Drudge — Matt Drudge. Right? He’s a great guy. 
But Drudge, 46 percent. At 46 percent, you have 15 people. Now, if you noticed a
 couple have dropped out. A couple or more.


But 15, 16 people — 46 percent. Time magazine, 49 percent. Think of it. Slate,
 51 percent. U.S. News and World Report — 69 percent said I won the debate. I 
wont the debate, right?






PBS, Public Broadcasting System — 69 percent said Trump won.






No, you know, it is amazing. We have Washington Times at 62 percent. CBS, 59 per
cent. Fox, 62 percent — Fox Las Vegas, 62 percent. So, they all say — then t
hey go back home, after the debate. I like to see how did I do? Did I look good?
 Looking good is very important, right? Sometimes, it is not as much like what y
ou say, it’s how did you look?


Oh, I looked good, didn’t sound too good, but that is OK. You wonder if that i
s a good trait. But I go home, and I watch, and the pundits will say — and the
y can’t totally kill me, because we know it is happening, we know what’s hap
pening — well, Mr. Trump was OK tonight. He was — I won every single online 
poll, I won.


And then, here’s Bush. So, Bush does an ad. And he takes me — and he was tal
king about, you know, something, and manage — and then I killed him. I mean, h
e — by the way, I met 69 percent, he is at 1 percent, he got. He came in last.






He takes the ad — and I shouldn’t even talk about him. He’s down to two or
 three — I — but it bothers me when I see a guy spending, you know, $60 mill
ion on ads against me, a lot of it, right? I say, why is he doing this? Doesn’
t he have something better, he should go home.






Just relax. You know, honestly, he should go home and relax. He shouldn’t be w
asting his time. But it does. I say, why is this guy spending all this money? No
w he is spending it actually against a couple of other guys, they were also very
 weak and somewhere — but here is my ad. So, he made a statement, and after th
at, his spin people said, oh, he was great. He took on Trump, he took on Trump. 
I’m standing here, he’s over here. Took on Trump, he made a statement that w
as written by his pollster. You know? So, he would remember (ph) it.


He said, "Mr. Trump, why don’t you this?" I said, OK. Then I gave him an answe
r. I said, "Jeb, I’m at 42, you are at 2. Right? It is a simple answer. You st
arted off here, right next to me, and then you were there, then you were there, 
by the next time, you are going to be off the stage. Right?






No, no, it’s true. And then — and then — and that was it. And so I respond
ed. So, he asked me a question, question was fine. You know, professionally writ
ten. So, he asked me a question, good. I give him an answer, I blow him away. Ri
ght. Everyone says Trump won the debate. Everybody. And hat is it. So, the ad is
 him asking the question and I’m standing there like this, because I haven’t
 — in fact, you see in one of them, I’m just about ready to open my mouth.


But he doesn’t let me respond. That is almost false advertising, isn’t it? Y
ou know? So, I mentioned it, Hillary is a disaster. I mean, Hillary.


Hillary is controlled by her money. So is Jeb. So is — by the way, I’m the o
nly one self-funding my campaign. I’m self-funding.






You know, one of the things that makes me happy. I heard one of my commentators 
this morning, said, "you know, I’ve been watching this stuff for 50 years and 
I’ve never seen anything like what has happened with Trump. One of them actual
ly said — one of them — I’m special. You’re special. I like you. I’m s
pecial.


Isn’t that nice? That’s a very — every once in a while, somebody can say s
omething that hits you. Where are you? Who said that? Wow. So nice. Thank you. T
hat is a nice one. That’s like, you know, very once in a while, there is a sta
tement that is either nice or brutal. I think low-energy was a brutal statement,
 right?


Low-energy can be applied to Hillary. I just don’t like to use the same thing 
twice on one of my enemies. Right? Because I consider them enemies. We view this
 as war. Don’t we view this as war? It’s war.


It’s war. And so, you don’t like to use it. I hate to give it up. What?


 How are you going to help my little girl (ph), daughter?  Oh, we are going to h
elp your daughter. We are going to help the country, that’s called helping the
 daughter. We are going to help your country. So, here is the story. So, we are 
in a situation where we have incompetent leadership, where our trade deals are k
illing us, our military is not prepared. General Odierno when he left, just rece
ntly, he said that we are less prepared than at any time that he can remember. A
nd I think he went back tot he beginning, but let’s say second World War. OK? 
That’s enough.


And we should be very prepared now, because the world hates us. She has done a t
errible job as secretary of State. Think of it. Putin comes out, he said, Donald
 Trump is brilliant, he is doing an amazing job, and he is leading the pack. OK,
 that’s nice.


 And she and my opponents — oh, isn’t it terrible that Putin said — wouldn
’t it be nice if we could get along with the world? Wouldn’t it be? Seriousl
y. No, no, wouldn’t it be nice?






I mean, they want me to refute his statement. How dare you say I’m brilliant? 
How dare — that’s — who’s going to do that? And by the way, if he said i
t about anyone of them, they would have been very happy.


But the point is, we have to get along. The world has blown up around Barack Oba
ma.


Now, I don’t know if you saw his recent release. They were talking about the D
epartment of State, State Department, and they said very strongly, you know, the
 things that they’ve done. Well, they couldn’t find it because what have the
y done that’s good? And they said bringing peace to Syria. Did you see that?


So instead of saying they made a mistake — call it a typo, they made a mistake
 — they’re trying to justify it. Well, we meant we’re working on it. Can y
ou believe — bringing peace to Syria. The world is blowing up, the migration i
n Syria — they say one of their achievements for the year is bringing peace to
 Syria, and the whole world’s talking about it. It’s — the level of stupid
ity is incredible. I’m telling you. I used to use the word incompetent, now I 
just call them stupid.






I went to an Ivy League school, I’m very highly educated. I know words, I had 
the best words. I have — but there’s no better word than stupid.






Right? There is none. There is none.






There’s no — there’s no — there’s no word like that. So we are going t
o turn things around. But — and if we have Hillary — I’ve got to tell you.
 I just saw where for the last week she’s been hitting me really hard with the
 women card, OK? Really hard. And I had to say OK, that’s enough, that’s eno
ugh. And we did a strong number. She’s not going to win. Any by the way, I lov
e the concept — I love, love, love having a woman president. Can’t be her. S
he’s horrible. She’s horrible.




 And you know really don’t — I’ll tell you who does not like — yeah, we
ll get Ivanka. Good. Let’s do Ivanka.






But I’ll tell you who doesn’t like Hillary are women. Women don’t like Hil
lary.






I see it all the time. And always so theatrical; Mr. Trump said this and that an
d this. And you just — I actually — I shouldn’t do it. I just have to turn
 off the television so many times. She just gives me a headache.






But you know — although I think last night I gave her a big headache.






I can imagine — I can imagine those discussions. But you have to hit back hard
, and you can’t let them push you around. And today, she gave a speech and she
 never even mentioned my name. You know, in the debate I was mentioned nine time
s, I mean everything. All of them. But her. I was mentioned nine times, none of 
the other candidates were mentioned. And then she came out with the sexism, whic
h is so nonsense. And — but she’s playing that card. And then I had to hit h
er back, so I hit her back and I talked about her husband and the abuse of women
 and the tremendous abuse — no, it’s tremendous abuse.


I mean, you look at it, it’s tremendous abuse. And I talked about that. And no
w today, the television is going crazy, and she gets up, makes a speech and does
n’t even mention anything about me with sexism or anything else. I wonder why 
— I wonder why.






And remember this; it’s really important. A poll just came out where we’re t
ied, another one came out a couple of weeks ago, Fox, where I’m leading by fou
r or five points against her individually. We’re doing great. I haven’t even
 focused on her yet.


Look at the people I’ve focused on. I don’t want to really knock them, I don
’t want to mention their names. But, you know, of those people that are all go
ne, they were all people that attacked me. Wouldn’t it be nice if our country 
could have that same thing? You attack and they’re, boom, gone. And if we coul
d do it verbally —






— you know, if we could do it verbally that’s even better, right? You know, 
who wants to use our military? By the way, we are going to build the strongest, 
the best, the most powerful military ever. Ever. Ever.






And we’re going to take care of our vets, we’re going to take care of our ve
ts —






 And it will cost you much less money, and it will be great. I mean, you are sig
ning in programs, things that you will never, ever use, You know that. And you a
re paying for it. And you will never ever use them. So we will get that straight
ened out. We are going to straighten a lot of things. We are going to straighten
 out Common Core. Common Core is dead. It’s going to be dead.






 When I look at parents and I see local parents in Iowa and New Hampshire and So
uth Carolina, I went to a school and I saw the parents, they love their children
. They want that — they want education. They love — they don’t care about 
money, they don’t care about anything. They love their children and it’s loc
al.


And they get together and they do wonderful programs. They are smart people as o
pposed to getting it done by bureaucrats that are getting big, fat checks in Was
hington. I mean, we have such talent in this country and we don’t use it. So, 
Obamacare, dead. Common core, gone. We are going to get rid of it. Department of
 Education, we are going to get rid of it.






 We are bringing education to a local level. One thing on education. So, in the 
world, we are ranked number 28. There are third world countries that are ranked 
better than us in education and many other things. And yet, per pupil, we are nu
mber 1, by far — there is nobody close. Number two isn’t even close.


So we spend more money for pupil than any country in the world and we are ranked
 number 28 which is way down at the bottom, essentially. I mean, it’s — can 
you imagine we are ranked number 28 and we are number 1? And that’s what I do 
like saying about my campaign, I spent less money than anybody else and I have t
he best results.


I’m number one by a lot and I spent no money. I mean, my plane cost me some mo
ney, but I spent no ads. Took a little radio ad in Iowa. But I didn’t do that 
— I took — I think the station is so lovely if you want to know the truth. B
ut I spent essentially no money.


And then you have all these other guys spending vast — and they like the way t
he United States is run. Now, why would we put a guy like Jeb, like some of the 
others. It’s not only Jeb Bush. They spend money. I see Rubio on the ads all d
ay long.


You know, the black background. He’s got like a black thing. He should have pu
t something like that behind him, right? Right there, the flag.






 No, no. And I like him. I think he is a nice guy. But I see these ads with the 
backdrop and it is just somber. It’s not — I don’t think it’s good. So, 
think of it. I spent no money and I’m number one. Others spent — they will h
ave spent hundreds of millions of dollars and they are not even in the race. Tha
t’s what we need for our country. What? OK. I’ve got 15,000, I don’t know 
what the hell he means by that but that’s OK. So, but I think he’s a fan. I 
don’t think he’s a — are you a protester? No. OK. No body likes Trump. OK.
 He’s not a protester. I love you.






 You know, the only time — don’t worry about it. The only time the cameras f
ocus on the crowd is when we have a protester. Cause I always have — like, loo
k at this room, packed. I always have the biggest crowds.


And I go home and my wife said were there many people? I watched you on televisi
on tonight. I said, I had 20,000 people. She said, they didn’t show it. They h
ave it right on your face. So I have 20,000 people. I have 20,000 in Oklahoma, 3
5,000 in Mobile, Alabama. Nobody knows. Because those cameras stay right in your
 face and I think they can’t move.


You know, I think they might be fixed because modern cameras maybe — except ev
ery time there is a guy that stands up protesting, you know, they are on drugs o
r something, cause some of those guys, it’s like. They don’t even know what 
the hell they are doing there, all the sudden, the cameras swerve and make perfe
ct shots.


And I like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. So, you know. Some t
ime I think I’m going to put in some false protesters. I’ll put in some frie
ndly protesters. It’s the only way I’m going to be able to get the crowd in.


So when we started, I talked about trade. I talked about the border. I talked ab
out a lot of things. And I started on June 16th and — in Trump Tower, the famo
us escalator ride. And it takes guts to run for president. I’ll tell you, you 
know, it’s like, I’ve never did this before.


And, you know, then they tell you on a debate we had the largest debate. We have
 the largest audience in the history of cable television. Then CNN a couple of w
eeks later had 23 million. Fox had 24 million. CNN had 23 million — the larges
t audience in the history of CNN.


Now, they’re there — the cameras are on live right now. I mean, you know. So
, the largest audience in the history of (inaudible).


Now, the debates used to be, if you go back four years or eight years, you know,
 whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted — they didn’t want the deba
tes. I think they were forced to take them for licensing. Nobody wanted the deba
tes. They drew nothing, but now they’re drawing 24 million. Now they want to h
ave more debates — "Oh, can we have more? Can we have more?" Can they go three
 hours?


Do you remember when they had the one go three hours? I said, no, I’m not doin
g three hours. It’s too long. Who wants — I could stand up here for 50 hours
, but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of the stuff, right?


"Mr. Trump, you have 30 seconds. What would you do about ISIS?" Oh, great. And b
y the way, that question — I hate those questions. You know why? Because I wan
t to be unpredictable. I don’t want to tell ISIS what I’m going to do to kno
ck the hell out of them.






Remember, I said very strongly — (inaudible) the oil for what, four years? You
’ve been watching. I mean, four years. I’ve been "get the oil, get the oil, 
get the oil." Because who’s going to get the oil? Iran is taking over Iraq. We
 made a deal for Iran, done by some of the dumbest people on earth, on our side.
 We gave them everything. They — we don’t even get our prisoners back.


And now Iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. Can you believe it?
 I go crazy. We would have gotten them back. All you had to do was say, "We want
 our prisoners back." They would have said no. I would have said, "I want them b
ack; you don’t understand me. I want them back." They would have said, "No, we
 won’t do that." I would have said, "Bye-bye," and I would have left. Then I w
ould have doubled up the sanctions. And I guarantee you...






... I guarantee you that within 24 hours, they would have called back and they
ll say, "You’ve got your prisoners; can we talk?"


And I would have never given them $150 billion. I would have never given them th
e money. I would have never give — they’re using it — they don’t have to
 make nuclear. They can buy it. Why are they going to make it? Then we have the 
nuclear, where they have self- inspections. How about the area — you know, the
 big area? They don’t want us there. Oh, I wonder why. They don’t want us th
ere. So they self-inspect, OK?


Then they have the 24-day inspection, but the self-inspection is the beauty. "We
 think you’re making nuclear weapons here." "Well, let us go check, Mr. Presid
ent, we’ll check."






"No, sir, we’re not making nuclear weapons. Nobody — no, we’re not; we wou
ld never do a thing like that."


These are people that have deceived us. They’ve lied to us. They’re a terror
ist state. But — and I used to say it’s the worst deal that I’ve ever seen
 negotiated. And by the way, just to finish prisoners. So they’d come back; we
 get our prisoners. But then when I hear the other day that now this deal is don
e. It’s all done. And now I hear they want to negotiate to get — and what do
 they say? They said very strongly, they said, "We are going to want a lot for t
he prisoners. That’s out — we’re starting off; we’re going to want a lot
."


Now, we’ve already taken off the sanctions. They’re already rich as hell. Wh
at — what’s going on there? That’s why I say, I mean, some people say it
s worst than stupidity. There’s something going on that we don’t know about
. I mean, honest. And you almost think — I’m not saying that, and I’m not 
a conspiracy person. As you said, "We are; we’re saying it."






Half the people in this room are saying it. I’m trying to be — you know, I
m just hoping they’re just stupid people, OK?






Which they are. Or there’s something going on. Because it’s — it’s incon
ceivable. You know, do you ever see where some things are so bad that it can’t
 be — that nobody can do what they did, right? Nobody.


So, Iran now wants to negotiate separately for the (inaudible). In other words, 
that deal is done; now we want to start all over again. And they want a lot. "We
 want a lot." And I just — I want to just shoot the television, you know? Beca
use they would have had it just by saying.


And, you know, when they asked Kerry and Obama, the deal was made. Everybody kno
ws it’s a horrible deal. It’s going to need to — it’s going to lead to t
remendous nuclear proliferation, and they’re so rich now. You know, they becam
e — $150 billion — they became so rich. And many other things that you don
t even know about. Most people don’t even know what the agreement says.


 But I’ll tell you what, when you look at what we’re doing, we’re not goin
g to have — if we keep going like this, folks, we’re not going to have a cou
ntry left. We’re not going to have a country. We’re not going to have a coun
try.


And we’re like a dumping ground for the world. We’re a dumping ground. They 
want to take these migrants — the migrants, you know, and I feel terrible abou
t the migration, caused by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. They’re the ones 
that caused it. They go into Libya. They knocked the hell out of Gadhafi. OK, so
 Gadhafi — they backed rebels who end up killing the ambassador and the other 
young people.


You know the ambassador was riding in a jeep, one of our jeeps, of course, a mil
itary jeep, holding the Libyan flag and you know, freedom, freedom, freedom. And
 then gets killed by the same people. So, we backed people that turned out to be
 far worse than Gadhafi.


Look at what we did in Iraq. Look at what we did in Iraq. I mean, what the hell 
did we get? We spent $2 trillion, and that was as a year and a half ago. I keep 
saying two or three, it’s a lot more than that. We spent $2 trillion, we have 
thousands of deaths, and I’m not even talking other side.


You are talking about hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. You have thousands 
of deaths. We have wounded warriors, who I love, all of. These guys are the toug
hest — these are the greatest people.






 You know, these are the greatest people. And then what happens? We leave, and w
e have a president that announces the date of when we are leaving. So, I said, m
an, if I’m the enemy, I’m just going to go wait for 18 months right?


He gave a date. We are leaving Iraq, we will be gone by such and such a time. I 
said, I’m just sitting there watching and I’m saying, man, that’s really s
tupid. Because, believe me, the enemy doesn’t want to be killed. You know, you
 hear so much, oh they want to go with the virgins up to wherever they go, right
?


They don’t. They want to live. And they want to take care of their families, a
lways their families. You remember that, because their families know what’s go
ing on OK? You think their wives don’t know what they are planning? You think 
their kids don’t know exactly what daddy is doing when daddy is going to fly i
nto the World Trade Center? You think they don’t know? They know exactly what
s going on. Remember that. And frankly, I think they have more love for their 
family’s lives than they do for their own lives, OK. But they still want to li
ve. So here is Obama, gives an exact date. He gives an exact date and so they pu
ll back.


And everyone says, oh, we are doing so well. Look, we’re doing so well. Why sh
ould they fight when they know, in 18 months, they can go in and take the place?
 So what happens? So we have ISIS taking a lot of oil. I said take the oil. Reme
mber when we left, I was opposed to going in because I said you’re going to de
stabilize the Middle East.


Because you had Iraq and you had Iran. And I said, they fight, they’re always 
fighting for decades and decades, for generations. They fight, that’s what the
y do. They fight. How we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe. They
 fight and they were equal militarily. They go this way, 10 feet. They go this w
ay, 10 feet. Then they rest a couple of years, then they start fighting again.


Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas. Everyone goes crazy. Oh, it’s because
 (ph) of gas. They go back and forth. It’s the same. And they were stabilized.
 And I said, if you go after one or the other, in this case Iraq, you’re going
 to destabilize the Middle East. That’s what going to happen. You’re going t
o destabilize the Middle East. And that’s exactly what happened. We totally de
stabilized the Middle East.


We have now migrations ,largely because of what’s happened afterwards. You kno
w Iraq was horrible. It was stupid to go in and we should have never gone in. Bu
t we shouldn’t have gotten out the way we went out. And we shouldn’t have gi
ven dates. I mean, I would have probably said we are going to stay forever. And 
they would have said, oh, man.


And then keep going, keep going and eventually they would get tired and say, thi
s guy is crazy. I mean, he’s never going to leave and you’ll make a deal. Bu
t when you announce you are leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, t
hey just pull back. And then as soon as we left, they come in OK?


So they have the oil. You know who the biggest benefactor of the oil is right? C
hina. Always China. I love China. I love Mexico. Their leaders are too smart for
 us. We have no border. We will build a wall. Mexico will pay for the wall by th
e way.






 We’re building a wall, we are going to have a border. And people are going to
 come into our country, but they are going to come in through a legal process. T
hey’re not coming in the way they’re coming in now, just walking in like not
hing.


They are going to come in, but they are going to come through a legal process. S
o, with Iraq, so we give them the date and they take over. We didn’t take the 
year. So for four years, I have been talking about it. Then because of Paris, al
l of sudden they start bombing the oil.


But I didn’t want to just bomb the oil. I wanted to take oil. They’re bombin
g. You know, we are bombing. Great. What’s going to happen after that? So we
re bombing. And, you know, we are not really bombing it, because they are still
 selling it.


 I said, how could they keep selling it? Obama does not want to hit them too har
d because he is afraid he is going to pollute the atmosphere. No, this is seriou
s. Now think of it. He talks about the carbon footprint and yet he will fly a ve
ry old Air Force one, an old Boeing 747, with the old engines and you know, spew
ing stuff.


So, he’s got a problem with the carbon footprint. You can’t use hair spray b
ecause hair spray is going to affect the ozone. I’m trying to figure out. Let
s see, I’m in my room in New York City and I want to put a little spray so t
hat I can —










— right? Right? But I hear where they don’t want me to use hair spray, they 
want me to use the pump because the other one which I really like better than go
ing bing, bing, bing —






— and then it comes out in big globs, right, and you — it’s stuck in your 
hair and you say oh my God, I’ve got to take a shower again. My hair’s all s
crewed up, right?






I want to use hair spray. They say don’t use hair spray, it’s bad for the oz
one. So I’m sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed unit — you k
now, I really do live in a very nice apartment, right?






But it’s sealed, it’s beautiful. I don’t think anything gets out. And I’
m not supposed to be using hair spray. But think of it. So Obama’s always talk
ing about the global warming, that global warming is our biggest and most danger
ous problem, OK? No, no, think of it. I mean, even if you’re a believer in glo
bal warming, ISIS is a big problem, Russia’s a problem, China’s a problem. W
e’ve got a lot of problems. By the way, the maniac in North Korea is a problem
. He actually has nuclear weapons, right? That’s a problem.


We’ve got a lot of problems. We’ve got a lot of problems. That’s right, we
 don’t win anymore. He said we want to win. We don’t win anymore. We’re go
ing to win a lot — if I get elected, we’re going to win a lot.






We’re going to win so much — we’re going to win a lot. We’re going to wi
n a lot. We’re going to win so much you’re all going to get sick and tired o
f winning. You’re going to say oh no, not again. I’m only kidding. You never
 get tired of winning, right? Never.






But think of it. So Obama’s talking about all of this with the global warming 
and the — a lot of it’s a hoax, it’s a hoax. I mean, it’s a money-making
 industry, OK? It’s a hoax, a lot of it. And look, I want clean air and I want
 clean water. That’s my global — I want clean, clean crystal water and I wan
t clean air. And we can do that, but we don’t have to destroy our businesses, 
we don’t have to destroy our —


And by the way, China isn’t abiding by anything. They’re buying all of our c
oal; we can’t use coal anymore essentially. They’re buying our coal and they
’re using it. Now when you talk about the planet, it’s so big out there — 
we’re here, they’re there, it’s like they’re our next door neighbor, rig
ht, in terms of the universe. Miss Universe, by the way, I made a great deal whe
n I sold — oh did I get rich.






That was a great deal. You know, they broke my choppers on that. They said he ta
lks about illegal immigration, we’re not going to put him on television. First
 of all, Univision is being sued like crazy; you wouldn’t believe it. And NBC,
 I made a great deal with them, just like an amazing deal, far more than I would
 have ever gotten — I mean, I made an unbelievable deal — far more than I ev
er would have gotten if I said I think I’m going to sell it if times were norm
al, right? Isn’t it amazing the way that stuff can work out?


But I love Miss Universe and I love the universe. But think of it. So China is s
pewing up all this stuff and we’re holding back. And with China — you know, 
we signed these agreements where we have to do it now, they have to do it within
 30 or 35 years. I don’t think they’re going to be doing it.


It’s like Japan. If somebody attacks Japan, we have to immediately go and star
t World War III, OK? If we get attacked, Japan doesn’t have to help us. Someho
w, that doesn’t sound so fair. Does that sound good?




 So South Korea — I order televisions, I order thousands of televisions a year
. I order televisions because I have a lot of stuff and I like nice brand new 
 they’re all made in South Korea, most — other than Sony, and Sony, in all 
fairness, has lost its way. But a lot of them — Samsung, all of them. I mean, 
they’re all pretty much — all of them, right? I think just about. But I orde
r thousands of televisions, they’re all from South Korea. So we have 28,000 pe
ople on the border separating South Korea from this maniac in North Korea, we ge
t nothing. What do — we get nothing. They’re making a fortune. It’s an eco
nomic behemoth.


A lot of you don’t know we protect Germany. Germany! Mercedes Benz, how many p
eople have a Mercedes Benz? We protect Germany. It’s an economic behemoth.


We protect Saudi Arabia. They were, during the good oil days — now it’s prob
ably half, which is fine. But during the good old — they were making a billion
 — listen to this — a billion dollars a day, and we protect them. Our milita
ry — they pay us peanuts, like nothing. And then if we want to buy — we want
 to move to another location, well, that’s very expensive if we do that. We wa
nt — they charge us rent?


I mean, look. We are run by people that are so bad, they’re so out of their le
ague — and I see it, I see it on the stage. You know, they’re — a lot of t
hem are nice people. You know, a lot of people think I don’t like these people
. I do like them. But they don’t have business sense, they don’t have busine
ss ability, they don’t have common sense. They’re politicians, they’re all
 talk, they’re no action.


When I say...






... folks, when I say, "We’re going to build a wall." Most of them say, "You c
an’t build a wall — build a wall." In China 2,000 years ago, they built the 
Great Wall of China, which is bigger than any wall we’re thinking about, OK? T
he Great Wall of China goes 18,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we only n
eed 1,000 miles, because you have a lot of natural barriers, right, that are ext
remely tough to get across. We have 1,000 miles.


So, China has 18,000 or 13,000 miles, and we have 1,000 miles. We have modern cr
anes. We have Caterpillar tractors — I want to use Caterpillar; I don’t want
 to use Komatsu.






Made in America.






Even my hats, they’re made in America. It wasn’t easy to find a guy that cou
ld do those hats. You know what I’m talking about. I see so many knock-offs of
 my hat, right? "Make America Great Again." I see these things that are out of p
lastic. They’re out of all sorts of crap. Mine are made in America. And honest
ly, they do a great job, but they don’t produce as many as I’d like because,
 frankly, there’s a big — I mean, it’s amazing. Those hats are amazing. Bu
t I wanted to have it made. And you know why I wanted it — I wanted it, anyway
, but I also knew that as soon as the hats came out, and other things — we hav
e a website — as soon as the hats came out, I knew the press would be calling.
 And it’s true. First hour when the hats were announced, I get a call from the
 New York Times. "Mr. Trump, where are those hats made?" I said, "America."






I knew it. I knew it. Because as you know, if I would have said China, I would h
ave been in big, big trouble. But they’re being knocked off all over the world
. I mean, I see hats — they’re like helmets. I see them all. But what are yo
u going to do?


But here’s the story. We’ve got to build a wall. So when I talk and when I
m up on the stage with these guys, these people — wonderful people — and a 
very nice woman, Carly. She’s a nice woman. When I’m up on the stage with th
em, they think I’m crazy when I say "Mexico" — I’m saying, "We’re going 
to build a wall; it’s going to be a great wall; it’s going to be real wall. 
See this ceiling? This ceiling is peanuts compared to the height of the wall I
m talking about."


I’m talking about a van to get up there. They’re not coming down because it
s too dangerous.






All right? Did you ever see what they do now? We have these little walls. They b
uild ramps. They build a ramp. I say, "Wouldn’t it be cheaper just to knock th
e wall down and just..." And then they drive over it with jeeps loaded up with d
rugs. Do you see this? They build ramps. There was a picture in Time magazine. I
t’s a ramp — a little ramp that goes over the wall. So, they have a jeep —
 over, down, bump, make money. We get the drugs. Think of it. We — "build a wa
ll" is right. You’ve got to build a wall.


We get the drugs. They get the cash. No so good, right? We don’t like that dea
l. Our politicians don’t know — they don’t know.


So when I say "Mexico’s going to pay for it," these guys on the stage with me,
 they’re not business people. They don’t understand. Mexico makes a fortune 
off the United States. Number one, we give them a lot of money. But in addition 
to that, they’re taking our businesses. They’re making — you talk about a 
trade deficit. I’ll tell you what, Mexico in a certain way is in a mini-versio
n the new China. Mexico is making an absolute fortune — peanuts, compared to t
he cost of the wall.


Let’s say the cost of the wall is $10 billion. That’s a good — I can do gr
eat job at $10 billion. I think we’ll have a lot of money left over. Somebody 
else would — and by the way, 20 years ago, they wanted to build a wall. People
 that are opposed to it now, they wanted to stop and they wanted to build a wall
. You know one of the reasons they didn’t build the wall? Because of the Envir
onmental Protection Agency, they couldn’t get an environmental impact study ap
proved. Can you believe it? Because there was a toad or a turtle or a snake or s
omething was in the way.


Now, think of it. In China, in the South China Sea, there were these low-level l
and masses that were covered by water, but pretty close to the top. China sends 
in massive excavators and they’re (inaudible). They’re building military for
tresses in the South China Sea. And a friend of mine, who is one of the biggest 
and richest people in China — he’s a great guy. They’re great people. They
’re fine. They’re just too smart. I mean, the leaders are too smart for our 
people.


They won’t be too smart when I put my people there.






When they call up, "We’d like to speak to the donor that is negotiating it." "
No, no. The donor now is Carl Icahn. You’re going to speak to Carl Icahn." You
 know Carl — great businessman. You have so many people — they call all thes
e business people — call. So, a friend of mine, so I call him, I say, "You’r
e actually doing that." And then jokingly, I said, "How long did it take to get 
started? Did you have to get an environmental impact study approved in order to 
excavate?"


He looked at me, goes, "I — I hope you’re kidding when you say that.


They conceived of the idea and they started digging four hours later, OK? There 
is no, you know, go through 25 years of environmental impact, you are going to h
urt the snail. You’re going to hurt this. You are going to — they are doing 
a big thing.


They excavated — massive, massive — take a look, massive. The biggest excava
tion. They are ripping the hell out of that ocean. They are ripping it and they 
are taking their dirt and they are putting it — and they’re building air fie
lds and they’re building forts.


We couldn’t do it because, just like I said for the law. Legitimately, they co
uld not get an environmental impact statement. Now, that’s probably not the on
ly reason it didn’t happen. I heard their costs were too high. With me, that
s easy.


You know, I’m doing the old post office or watch (ph) you (ph). I’m under bu
dget, I’m ahead of schedule. Hey, look at the campaign. The guy’s at $59 mil
lion and he’s down at the bottom. I’m nothing and I’m at the top. It’s t
he same thing.






 I actually said — it’s funny. The other day I got this great review. They s
aid trump is a great speaker. The crowd is spellbound. But he has one problem. A
nd I’m reading, and I want to see. The problem is, he speaks through the Appla
use. In other words, like I say that, you applaud, I start talking you finish yo
ur Applause. And you know why? Because I’m so excited, because we have so much
 potential. It’s true.


 I don’t want to wait for your freaking Applause. We have — I have so many 
 we have so much potential. There are so many things to do. I don’t really s
ort of want to wait. I want to do it. And I just noticed, I did it again. You we
re getting ready to give a big Applause, because you like that, and I’m speaki
ng. I killed the Applause. But he is right. But except, I’m not a speaker. Wha
t I am is a doer. I get things done.






 So, when the people up on the stage with me — and Hillary, Hillary doesn’t 
have a clue. By the way, you talk about low energy. She has lower energy than Je
b Bush, which is hard to believe. She does. And I’ll tell you and I’ve been 
saying it. And maybe it’s rude, maybe it is not. But it doesn’t matter. We h
ave a much bigger problem. We have to save our country.


So, if I’m rude and if people think I’m rude — I’m actually a nice perso
n. I have a big heart. I want to help people. I want to help the migration. I wa
nt to do a safe zone in Syria. I don’t want them coming here. We don’t know 
who these people are. They are undocumented.






 And we should do a safe zone over there. We should have the Gulf states — Sau
di Arabia and these states they are not spending. They have got to spend. They h
ave to pay. You know, we are protecting them. We’re doing — they wouldn’t 
be there for two minutes if we weren’t protecting them. They have to start pay
ing. They are not taking anybody, OK?


How about Germany taking millions of migrants. Can you believe what she is doing
 to that country? And she was the person of the year and I wasn’t. Everybody s
aid Trump was supposed to.


(BOOING)


Hey, what are you going to do. I think she has made a terrible mistake. We will 
find out. Time will tell. They have tremendous crime problems. I think she has m
ade a tremendous mistake. But what I like is in Syria, with other people’s mon
ey, meaning the Gulf states and others and Germany and others.


Because, look, Germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. They’ll
 give us the money. We do a massive safe zone. And then eventually when this who
le catastrophe straightens out, which I will probably be able to get it straight
ened out, I understand this now.


But once it’s straightened out, they could go home to their country, you know,
 to their area. It is interesting, I have thousands of people that work for me. 
Thousands. And I have people that come from far — they are all here legally, d
on’t worry about it. I use E- verify. But I have people — oh, they go and ch
eck. These guys go check.


They went into the old post office checking everybody who walked their dog, are 
you hear illegally? They said they found one person out of hundreds and hundreds
. I don’t believe it. But, you know, it is possible somebody slipped — hey, 
we do have 11 million people in the country. And it is probably a much higher nu
mber than that, OK? It is probably a much higher number.


But we have to do something about it and we are going to. So, I just want to fin
ish by saying this. Look, we have a situation that is out of control. Our countr
y is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are laughed at by the rest o
f the world.


And when I started this journey, and it is a journey, and I do love you people. 
You’re amazing people. And by the way, you are so smart. A lot of times, they 
will say, well Mr. Trump’s people are blue-collar. I love blue-collar. I’m h
onored by that.


But they are not blue-collar. We have blue-collar and we have executives and we 
have young people. They say the audience is old. It’s not older. The audience 
is young. The other night in Iowa, I told that, and I said, we have so many youn
g people and the place erupted. They are all young people. We have an amazing th
ing happening, it’s just...






 Look, that’s their way of marginalizing, not even me, they are marginalizing 
you. It is disgusting. But when I started this journey and that’s what it is, 
it’s a journey and it’s a movement that’s taking place. It’s a movement.
 Remember the old days? Silent majority? It’s not right. It’s a noisy majori
ty. People are angry. It’s a noisy majority. These aren’t silent people anym
ore. I go to people — you can’t even hear.


This is an amazing thing that’s happened. I received a call from one of the bi
ggest reporters, who happens to be liberal, but that’s OK. (inaudible) a coupl
e of them, right? But, a guy who’s really respected, recently, and he said, "H
ow does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" He said, "What you have done has
 never been done in the history of politics in the United States." I mean, even 
CNN said, "Number one political story of the year is Trump." You know what numbe
r two was? ISIS — ISIS was two. I’d rather reverse it. Let ISIS be one; let 
me be two, because I want to knock the hell out of them and make me number one n
ext year.






Make me number one next year. But this reporter, who is a great intellect, actua
lly, and a very smart guy, very good guy. He said — he said, "What you’ve do
ne has never been done before in the history of this country." Newt Gingrich was
 on a television show the other say, and said, "This is one the great phenomenon
s (ph) I’ve ever seen in politics; nobody’s ever seen it."


Crowds like this? Forget it. I mean, it’s only confined to this (inaudible). A
gain, they sent 3,000 people home. Can you believe it? More than 3,000. It’s 
 it’s unbelievable what’s happening. It’s beautiful what’s happening. 
It’s beautiful what’s happening. But Newt Gingrich said he’s never seen an
ything like this.


But he said to me, the reporter, he said, "never been done before." I said, "Wel
l, you know, it’s fine, but if I don’t win, it’s just a waste of time." He
 goes, "No, no, no. What you’ve done is incredible." He said, "Even if you don
’t win, what you’ve done is incredible; you’ve totally changed the landsca
pe of politics."






No, don’t applaud, don’t applaud, don’t applaud. He said, "You’ve totall
y changed the landscape of politics; it’s forever going to be different. Your 
campaign — there’s never been anything like it." OK, he was very nice. I sai
d, "You don’t understand. You don’t understand. If I don’t win, I will con
sider this" — and I mean this — "a total and complete waste of time." I real
ly do.


So — because we’re not going to do anything. It’s wonderful. Oh, good, I h
ad nice crowds. They’ll write about me every once in a while; every two years 
I’ll have a story, "Trump ran this rather good campaign." If we don’t win, t
o me, and honestly you should feel the same thing, if we don’t win, it’s a t
errible waste of time, because you’ll have somebody else in there. They won’
t be able to do what I do. They’re not going to be able to. And even if you ge
t one of these Republicans in, like, I didn’t finish the — so, the wall.


When I say "Mexico is going to pay," they all laugh. They all go "heh, heh, heh.
" They think it’s funny. Honestly, these are people — they think it’s funn
y. They’re laughing. You know, lightly, like "Oh ho, that’s so funny; ha, ha
, ha." They’re going to pay for the wall, folks. They’re making billions and
 billions and billions of dollars on deficits that we have with Mexico. The wall
 is peanuts. They’re going to pay for the wall.


But I mention it, now they don’t laugh because they’re starting to agree wit
h me. And then the other day, one of the people said — it was Ted Cruz, who is
 a nice guy. But he said, "We’re going to build a wall at the southern border.
" I said, "Look" — and my wife is sitting (inaudible) — where did that come 
from, right? No, Ted’s a good guy.


But he said on one of — I think it was on Fox, he was being interviewed. And h
e said, "We’re going to build a wall at the southern border." He didn’t say 
Mexico was going to pay was going to pay. He hasn’t gone that far yet, but bel
ieve me that’s going to happen. See, they’re all trying to catch up with me.
 Because when I did this stuff, it was very out there.


Now, I’m the one that everybody wants to sort of aspire to. But what happens i
s — so Ted’s up and he’s talking. And, you know, routinely we’re going t
o have the border; we’re going to have this and that. And we’re going to bui
ld a wall.


My wife is sitting there. She says, "Darling, did you hear that? He just said th
ey’re going to build a wall. That’s the first time I’ve — you know, that
’s what you say." She hasn’t heard that from any other candidate.


OK. So we’re going to build a wall. Mexico is going to pay for it. There are s
o many things we’re going to do. But when I — when I started the journey, it
 was amazing. I came down — it took courage. I went down in to the lobby of Tr
ump Tower, on the escalator with Melania. I have never seen — it looked like t
he Academy Awards, the press. We have a lot of press here today. They’re all l
ive — look at all those live cameras.






So when I came down — when I came down on the escalator, we came down. And I s
aid, "We’re going to do things." And I mentioned illegal immigration. You woul
dn’t even be talking about illegal — it wasn’t even on the radar. Nobody w
as talking about illegal immigration. Is that right? Now, it’s one of the big 
subjects.


 And that’s why — and one of the beautiful polls that came out, and I’m so
 proud of it, CNN just came out with a poll a couple of, I guess a week ago — 
36 percent for Trump; second is 16; third is 14; then 12. So they’re way down.
 But on the economy, they give me 55 — 55 percent. That’s with 16 people at 
the time.






On the budget, I mean, I understand — the budget, the economy, I win — I win
 it hands down, all right.


But listen to this. On illegal immigration, I’m almost at 50 percent.






And on ISIS, likewise, almost at 50 percent. So people want to be protected, the
y want to feel safe. They need strength, they need toughness, they need smarts. 
I don’t want to be tough — you know, I know a lot of tough guys but they’r
e not smart, and they’re the — they’re the easiest. You can be tough, you
ve got to be smart.


Let’s start smart first. You’ve got to be smart-tough. You’ve got to be to
ugh because the world is trying to take advantage of us. So what happens is this
. I came out, I started — I did it, I was, oh, that first couple of weeks with
 illegal immigration and Mexico and all of this stuff. Then Kate was killed in S
an Francisco and Jamiel was killed in Los Angeles. Jamiel Shaw, an unbelievable 
young man, was killed, just shot right through the head by an illegal immigrant.
 Kate was shot by a guy who came in five or six times, shot in the back.


So many great people. And that’s — these are two, so many. And then you have
 the economy and the jobs that are being lost and people aren’t paying taxes a
nd all of this stuff, right? And all of a sudden, people are coming over, and I 
say the wall and now they’re starting to say the wall. We have to be progressi
ve in our thinking. When I say progressive, I mean like smart. I’m not talking
 progressive like a Bernie Sanders would say, the guy want to tax you. Think of 
it.






Think of it. This guy wants to raise your taxes to 90 percent. No, no, think —
 you’ll have to move out of this — I love this area, by the way. I’ve been
 here many times. Great golfing area, right? We love it.






No more golf if Bernie Sanders — no more golf. No, no, you won’t have any go
lf anymore. There won’t be — you won’t have any money left to be — you
ll be paying it in taxes. This guy is a total disaster.


And I’m not saying that — I’ll tell you why. You know, Hillary said well, 
I’d like to run against Trump, believe me.


This poor Chuck Todd, Meet the Press. His show is dying and he keeps saying do i
t, do it, but I never liked it. You know, I just — he never treated me fairly.
 So I do his show, he gets the highest ratings he’s had in years. He went from
, like — believe me, I won’t even give you the numbers, they were massive, t
he numbers, right? I saved his life, and then he goes Hillary Clinton said that 
she would most like to run against Donald Trump. And yes — and they’re looki
ng forward to it. Trust me, the last person — she’s already gotten a dose la
st night, do you agree?




 She had a tough night. She had a tough one. She had a tough night looking at th
e beauty pageant, OK?






So Hillary Clinton said — and here’s Chuck Todd — and he’s a nice guy. I
’m not trying to knock him. Please don’t be insulted, Chuck. But she says sh
e doesn’t like him. But he doesn’t treat me right. So he goes the Clinton ca
mpaign said they’d most like to run against Trump, like I’m some kind of a s
ap. So I call him and I say Chuck, let me explain something. When they say they 
want to run against me, that means they don’t want to run against me, do you u
nderstand that? Do you understand it’s reverse psychology.


They say they want to run against me — first of all, I’m winning and tied in
 the polls now and I haven’t even hit her yet. But look at what happened to al
l the guys I hit. They’re gonzo, they’re gone or they’re failing badly, OK
, and they’ll be gone soon.


But Hillary Clinton — think of it. I say so Chuck, report it like properly. Tr
ust me, they don’t want to run against Trump. The last thing she wants in her 
whole life is — this was only — I did this in, like, 15 minutes what happene
d to them, because the husband wants to come and she wants to accuse me of thing
s and the husband’s one of the great abusers of the world? Give me a break. Gi
ve me a break.






Give me a break. So the last person she wants to run against is me.


Now here’s the story. Look, here’s the story. It’s very simple. So I annou
nced — and I was talking about trade, I was talking about the wall, I was talk
ing about the borders, I was talking about Obamacare, I was talking about the 2n
d Amendment will be saved, by the way. The 2nd Amendment.






It will be saved. The 2nd Amendment is going to be with us if I’m president. Y
ou know, they’re doing everything. They want to get rid of the bullets now, th
ey’re doing everything they can —


Think of Paris, think of Los Angeles. Think if you had some guns in Paris on the
 good side, right? They had no guns. Paris has the toughest guns in the world, f
olks. And France — I mean, you get caught with a gun, it’s — the only one 
that has guns are the bad guys. So they go in these various places, they called 
the guy the mastermind. He’s a moron. I mean, this guy was a moron. I call him
 the guy with the dirty hat, right? They got him so good. By the way, the French
 police did a great job and our Los Angeles police did a phenomenal job. They di
d a great job.






Wouldn’t it be wonderful if, let’s see, this guy right here in front of me, 
he’s a tough guy. This guy with the hat, with the lousy head of hair, but he
s a strong-looking guy right here. This guy right there, see? And that one. Wou
ldn’t it be nice if they had a gun on their waist? Somebody. Him, him, him, so
 that when they — you know what they were doing in Paris? Get over here, boom.
 Get over here, boom. Your turn, get over here, boom. One hundred and thirty peo
ple with more to follow because there are people that are so badly injured right
 now in hospitals. Other people are going to die.


Same thing over there. These are people that gave a party in honor of their marr
iage. There’s something going on, folks. It’s wrong. They gave them a party.
 They worked — they gave them a party. She came in on a fiance permit or some 
nonsense and she was radicalized, and he was probably radicalized by her or he w
as already radicalized.


And people knew that they were radicalized and people in the area knew that they
 had bombs — who the hell doesn’t know? You’re their next door neighbor. A
nd they didn’t want to talk about it. You’ve got to report these people. We
ve got a real problem. You’ve got to report them. No more nonsense.


They didn’t report them, and the reason they didn’t is because they don’t 
disagree with them so much. OK? Believe me. It’s not because they were afraid.
 You saw the one who wasn’t politically correct to (ph) report them. They didn
’t want to report them. I mean, give me a break. So we have to change.


So it started off with me where I was going to talk about trade, I was going to 
talk about all the things, I was going to talk about the military, building it u
p. I was going to do all of this, but after Paris and California, and there will
 be others because they have no fear of us, but after Paris and California, it h
as totally changed and my poll numbers went up 10 points.


It’s amazing. They went up 10 points. I said, "What, you think it was the deba
te?" Because I did good in the debate. They said, "No. People view you as a toug
h cookie that’s not going to take this crap." That’s what it is.






And now I talk about protection. I talk about — trust me. The trade — that
s so easy for me. I’ve got the greatest guys in the world. They’re going to
 come in, they’re going to do a great job. I’m going to do some myself. I al
ways talk about Ford. They’re going to built a plant, $2.5 billion in Mexico. 
That’s not going to happen with me. That stuff is — those deals are no good.


Ford’s leaving. They’re closing plants all over Michigan to build a plant in
 — in Mexico. How the hell does that help us? OK. Who are the people that thin
k this is a good thing for us? And in the meantime, in Michigan and other places
, we have plants closing all over the place and they’re spending — think abo
ut a $2.5 billion — then they’re going to sell cars, trucks and parts into t
he United States, no tax, no nothing.


I’ll say you don’t have to pay a tax, folks. And you know what? Ford will sa
y "If I (inaudible) pay a tax, we’re going to stay in the United States." I me
an, it’s very simple.






It’s very simple. How about two weeks ago, Nabisco announced a big — Chicago
. They announced they’re going to leave Chicago with one of their big plants a
nd they’re going to move it to Mexico. What’s my statement? We’re not eati
ng oreos anymore, right? No more.


But I don’t want this. It’s not going to happen. Then they’re make — the
y’re going to make product and they’re going to sell it into the United Stat
es? Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. And by the way, I’m a fre
e trader. I believe — we’ve got to be smart. I mean, we’ve got to get some
thing. We don’t get anything out of anything. We don’t get anything.


We lose on everything. That Iran deal was a disaster. By the way, think of the I
ran deal for one second. I always — and this came to me two weeks ago. I don
t know why I didn’t think of it sooner. Very disappointed with myself.






The Iran deal is the worst deal I’ve ever seen negotiated, OK? I’m wrong. Yo
u know what the worst deal is? Iran’s a part of that one too. We gave them Ira
q. That’s even better. Think of it. We gave Iran Iraq. Iran has the biggest 
 think of it. They’re going to have the richest oil — if you go to Iraq, ta
ke a look. Among the largest oil reserves in the world.


We gave them, by decapitating Iraq and then leaving, because frankly, once we di
d it we should have kept 20,00 troops or something, we give Iraq. So not only di
d they make a great deal in terms of the Iran deal that we know having to do wit
h nuclear, we also gave them Iraq. We gave them Iraq, that they’ve been after 
for 100 years. We handed it to them.


So now, they have the largest oil reserves among — in the world. That’s even
 better than the original deal. I mean, whoever is representing Iran is doing a 
hell of a job. OK? If that was a stock, you’ve got to buy some.


So we are not going to have deals like that with me. It’s not going to happen.
 We’re going to become rich again, we are going to become safe again and we ar
e going to become strong again. And...






And you’re going to remember this moment. This is going to be an important mom
ent for all of us. The one thing I have to say and I have to ask you to do, go o
ut and vote. It’s going to be your turn.






Number three. Remember, it starts on February 1st with Iowa. We go to New Hampsh
ire, then we go to the finals (ph), so three weeks. We’ve got four weeks to go
, and then we have three weeks after we start. No matter what is going on in you
r life, you have got to out and vote. Because if you don’t, it’s not going t
o happen.


Don’t sit back and say, oh, Trump is going to do well. The more we can win by,
 you know, the more power we have in a sense, because it is like a mandate. But 
you have got to go out and vote. And I will tell you this. It has been an honor 
to be here, I love this area, I love the people here. It’s been an honor.






But we will make America great again, I promise. Thank you.


 (OFF-MIKE) Thank you very much, everybody. Well, I want to begin by thanking th
e people of South Carolina. This is a special state. Thank you. These are specia
l people and we got a little boost last week from a place we all remember -- New
 Hampshire. We can't forget it. Special, special. We love it. And they sent us i
n here with a very good feeling, right?






 Very good feeling. So I really want to thank you and my volunteers. All of thes
e people -- volunteers and they travel and they -- and I say, "what are you doin
g?" And now they're going to Texas and they're going all over. Some are going to
 Nevada. I'll be going to Nevada. We're making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta 
and then we're going right to Nevada.


And I think we're going to do terrific and the SEC's (ph) going to be very, very
 exciting. We expect to do very, very well. Very well ...






 I want to just say thank you to my family. It's been not easy for them. They do
n't see me anymore. I'm making speeches all the time and I have a great. I reall
y have a great family so I just want to thank all of you.


And Ivanka -- you know we have a hospital ready just in case. In South Carolina 
we're going to have a baby. There's nothing wrong with that, right? So ...






 Could be -- it could be any second. It could even be before I'm finished but it
's -- but she insisted on being here. It was so important to Ivanka to insist on
 being here so thank you. Really good and Jared, Vanessa, Don.


We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process.






 You know Henry, right? The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. I will take h
im over the governor anytime because we won. We won ...






 He handle that very nicely. He's tough. He's very tough. Tiffany, Eric, Lara an
d Melania. Melania, say something. Go ahead, please ...






M. TRUMP: Just want to say an amazing place -- South Carolina. Congratulation to
 my husband. He was working very hard and he loves you. We love you and we're go
ing ahead to Nevada. And we will see what happen (sic). He would be the best pre
sident ...






 And representing some very, very wonderful children, Ivanka. Just say a few wor
ds.






I. TRUMP: Thank you, South Carolina. This is an amazing, amazing night. The mome
ntum since the beginning of this campaign has been unbelievable and that's becau
se my father's message resonants so deeply with so many people. So as our family
 we're incredibly proud. We're incredibly grateful to each of you so thank you f
or being here to support us. And I will say this, my father is an incredibly har
d worker and he'll be working for each and every one of you. So together we'll m
ake America great again. Thank you ...






 Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So I was watching upstairs and it was
 really amazing to be watching what I was watching. And some of the pundits and 
overall fair but not too much. But a number of the pundits said, "well, if a cou
ple of the other candidates dropped out if you add their scores together it's go
ing to equal Trump."


But these geniuses -- they're geniuses -- they don't understand that as people d
rop out I'm going to get a lot of those votes also. You don't just ...






 You don't just add them together. So I think we're going to do very, very well.
 I think we're going to do very well. I want to also congratulate the other cand
idates. In particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job and they
 got -- they did quite well as I understand. No, come on. Just one minute. Come 
on. One second, right? Good.


OK. We go back to war tomorrow morning. Tomorrow morning we'll be back but I jus
t want to congratulate the other candidates. There's nothing easy about running 
for president, I can tell you. It's tough, it's nasty, it's mean, it's vicious, 
it's beautiful.


(LAUGHTER)


 When you win it's beautiful and we're going to start -- we are going to start w
inning for our country. We're going to start winning.






 Because our country doesn't win anymore. Doesn't win. We don't win with the mil
itary, we can't beat ISIS. We have great military but we can't beat ISIS. We don
't win on trade. You look at what China's doing to us, what Japan does to us, wh
at Mexico is just killing us at the border -- at the border and with trade. Mexi
co is killing us -- absolutely. We'll do the wall. Don't worry. We're going to d
o the wall.


  We're going to do the wall and by the way, who's going to pay for the wall?






 Mexico's going to pay for the wall and it's very easy. The other politicians co
me down, "you can't get Mexico to pay for the wall." I said, "100 percent." We h
ave a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. The wall is going to cost $10 to $1
2 billion, OK? Believe me, they will pay. One of the officials -- actually, one 
of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference.


And he announced that we will not be paying for the wall. Who does Mr. Trump thi
nk he is? They came to me -- the press. These people -- look at all those camera
s back there.






 The press came to me and they told me that he said that he would not pay for th
e wall. Do you have a comment? I said, "yes. The wall just got 10 feet taller."






 It's true. And I love Mexico. I love Mexico, I love China, I love many of these
 countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent and don't
 know what they're doing. I love these countries. They're great. I have thousand
s and thousands of Hispanics. We're going to Nevada.


I lead -- I lead with the Hispanics. I'm leading in every poll with the Hispanic
s. They love me, I love them. The problem is -- the problem is that the leaders 
of these countries whether it's Mexico or Japan or Viet Nam which is just doing 
a big number now all of a sudden or China in particular -- that's the big one. T
he greatest abuse of a country that I think I've ever seen financially -- China.


What they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world
. They've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken everything. We'
re bringing our jobs back, folks. We're bringing our jobs back. We're going to b
ring them back ...






 And I know how to do it. We've had so many -- we've had so many incredible endo
rsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very im
portant. Carl Icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me.


And we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when C
hina wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a politica
l hack which is what they have now. They're going to negotiate with the best bus
iness minds in the world and we have them in this country.


  So we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. We're going to terminate Obamaca
re. It's going to terminated. It's going to be over ...






 It's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. And you're going to ha
ve much better health care at a much smaller cost because Obamacare -- if you lo
ok -- look at the increases in your Obamacare. Twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 perc
ent. It's dead. It's not working. We're going to go to a plan that's going to be
 so much better and so much less expensive.






 So second amendment by the way -- this is a room loves the second amendment. Th
ank you, fellows. This is a room loves and cherishes the second amendment. We ar
e going to protect our second amendment. Totally ...






 Common core is gone. We are getting rid of common core. We're brining education
 to a local level. The people in this community -- every time I see them they wa
nt education locally. The parents, the teachers. They want to do it -- they don'
t want bureaucrats in Washington telling them how to educate their children.






 We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the 
world. Not even close. More per pupil -- second place doesn't even exist it's so
 different. And yet out of 30 countries we're ranked number 30. You have China, 
you have Norway, Swenden, Denmark and then you have number 30, the United States
. So we spend the most and we're at the bottom of the heap. It's not going to ha
ppen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore.






 We are going to build our military which I thank because a number of the people
 came down and a number of the pundits in Washington I -- we love our military.






 We love our military. And by the way we love our police. Our police are terrifi
c. We love our police ...






 They are not being treated properly. We're going to build our military so big, 
so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks
.


  And we're going to buy -- we're going to buy the equipment that our generals, 
our soldiers, that everybody that's in the know want. We're not buying equipment
 that sells because they have political pull (ph). Because they take campaign an
d they give campaign contributions.


We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they're
 told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. We're going to have gre
at equipment.






 And the reason I can say that is I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm not getting 
millions of dollars from all of these ...






 I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lob
byists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicia
ns want. That's not going to happen. And we're going to take care of our vets. W
e love our vets and they're being treated terribly. We're taking care of our vet
s.






 So we're now off to Nevada and it's a great state. We have great people. We hav
e great people in our nation. No matter where we go -- I went to Mobile, Alabama
 -- 35,000 people. We went to Oklahoma recently twice -- 20,000 people, 20,000 p
eople. No matter where we go we fill up the arenas.


Over here the other day we had a 9,000 -- we had a 10,000 -- we have people. The
 only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can't get them in. We
 have to send thousands of people away.


Time Magazine -- Time Magazine last year did an incredible cover story. They sai
d "it's a movement." And that's what it is. It's an incredible movement with inc
redible people. Incredible people.






 It's an incredible movement with incredible people. I tell you. And whether we 
go -- honestly whether we go to Dallas or whether we go anywhere you say -- you 
go to L.A. -- you go anywhere you say. Our people are incredible. And our theme 
-- what's our theme? You know it, right?






 Our theme which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? And the wo
rd again eventually is going to come off. We're going to get rid of the whole th
eme because what's going to happen -- make America great again, right?


And the last two weeks because I've gotten to see so many -- I guess millions wh
en you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches. And I'
ve met so many people. But the people are so incredible that I've been saying ma
ke America great again and it's going to be greater than ever before. That's the
 kind of potential we have. Greater then every before.


I don’t see how there is any room for misunderstanding or misinterpretation of
 the statement I made on June 16th during my Presidential announcement speech. H
ere is what I said, and yet this statement is deliberately distorted by the medi
a:


"When Mexico (meaning the Mexican Government) sends its people, they’re not se
nding their best. They’re not sending you (pointing to the audience). They’r
e not sending you (pointing again). They’re sending people that have lots of p
roblems, and they’re bringing those problems to us. They’re bringing drugs.T
hey’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people!
 But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we’re getting. And it only
 makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people. It’s coming fr
om more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it
’s coming probably from the Middle East. But we don’t know. Because we have 
no protection and we have no competence, we don’t know what’s happening. And
 it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast."


What can be simpler or more accurately stated? The Mexican Government is forcing
 their most unwanted people into the United States. They are, in many cases, cri
minals, drug dealers, rapists, etc. This was evident just this week when, as an 
example, a young woman in San Francisco was viciously killed by a 5 time deporte
d Mexican with a long criminal record, who was forced back into the United State
s because they didn’t want him in Mexico. This is merely one of thousands of s
imilar incidents throughout the United States. In other words, the worst element
s in Mexico are being pushed into the United States by the Mexican
government. The largest suppliers of heroin, cocaine and other illicit drugs are
 Mexican cartels that arrange to have Mexican immigrants trying to cross the bor
ders and smuggle in the drugs. The Border Patrol knows this. Likewise, tremendou
s infectious disease is pouring across the border. The United States has become 
a dumping ground for Mexico and, in fact, for many other parts of the world. On 
the other hand, many fabulous people come in from Mexico and our country is bett
er for it. But these people are here legally, and are severely hurt by those com
ing in illegally. I am proud to say that I know many hard working Mexicans—man
y of them are working for and with me...and, just like our country, my organizat
ion is better for it.


The Mexican Government wants an open border as long as it’s a ONE WAY open bor
der into the United States. Not only are they killing us at the border, but they
 are killing us on trade ... and the country of Mexico is making billions of dol
lars in doing so.


I have great respect for Mexico and love their people and their peoples’ great
 spirit. The problem is, however, that their leaders are far smarter, more cunni
ng, and better negotiators than ours. To the citizens of the United States, who 
I will represent far better than anyone else as President, the Mexican governmen
t is not our friend...and why should they be when the relationship is totally on
e sided in their favor on both illegal immigration and trade. I have pointed thi
s out during my speeches and it is something Mexico doesn’t want me to say. In
 actuality, it was only after my significant rise in the polls that Univision, p
reviously my friend, went ballistic. I believe that my examples of bad trade dea
ls for the United States was of even more concern to the Mexican government than
 my talk of border security.


I have lost a lot during this Presidential run defending the people of the Unite
d States. I have always heard that it is very hard for a successful person to ru
n for President. Macy’s, NBC, Serta and NASCAR have all taken the weak and ver
y sad position of being politically correct even though they are wrong in terms 
of what is good for our country. Univision, because 70% of their business comes 
from Mexico, in my opinion, is being dictated to by the Mexican Government. The 
last thing Mexico wants is Donald Trump as President in that I will make great t
rade deals for the United States and will have an impenetrable border--only lega
lly approved people will come through easily.


Interestingly, Univision has just announced they are attempting to go public des
pite very poor and even negative earnings, which is not a good situation for a s
uccessful IPO or high stock price—not to mention that I am currently suing the
m for breach of contract. Remember, Univision is the one who began this charade 
in the first place, and they are owned by one of Hillary Clinton’s biggest bac
kers. After the speech was made, there were numerous compliments and indeed, man
y rave "reviews"—there was very little criticism. It wasn’t until a week aft
er my announcement that people started to totally distort these very easy to und
erstand words. If there was something stated incorrectly, it would have been bro
ught up immediately and with great enthusiasm.


The issues I have addressed, and continue to address, are vital steps to Make Am
erica Great Again! Additionally, I would be the best jobs President that God eve
r created. Let’s get to work!






TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE) This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and all of th
e bad things and we all know what’s going on, and especially how poor she’d 
do as president in these very, very troubled times of radical Islamic terrorism.
TRUMP: Even her former Secret Service agent, who’s seen her under pressure and
 in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to 
be our president. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important
 issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech very, very soon.
But today, there’s only one thing to discuss, the growing threat of terrorism 
inside of our borders. The attack on the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, wa
s the worst terror strike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass s
hooting in our country’s history.
So many people — it’s just hard to believe, but just so many people dead, so
 many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace. The horror is be
yond description. The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated,
 and they will be forever. Likewise, our whole nation and indeed the whole world
 is devastated.
We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their familie
s. We mourn as one people for our nation’s loss, and pledge our support to any
 and all who need it. I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of si
lence for the victims of this attack.
Thank you. Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlando
s LGBT community. They have been through something that nobody could ever expe
rience. This is a very dark moment in America’s history. A radical Islamic ter
rorist targeted the nightclub, not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but
 in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens, because of their sexual orientati
on.
It’s a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation. It’s an assau
lt on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want, and ex
press their identity. It’s an attack on the right of every single American to 
live in peace and safety in their own country.
We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people, with force, p
urpose, and determination. But the current politically correct response cripples
 our ability to talk and to think and act clearly. We’re not acting clearly, w
e’re not talking clearly, we’ve got problems.
If we don’t get tough, and if we don’t get smart, and fast, we’re not goin
g to have our country anymore. There will be nothing, absolutely nothing, left. 
The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born in Afghan, of Afgha
n parents, who immigrated to the United States.
His father published support for the Afghan Taliban, a regime which murders thos
e who don’t share its radical views, and they murdered plenty. The father even
 said he was running for president of Afghanistan. The bottom line is that the o
nly reason the killer was in America in the first place, was because we allowed 
his family to come here.
That is a fact, and it’s a fact we need to talk about. We have a dysfunctional
 immigration system, which does not permit us to know who we let into our countr
y, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens properly. We have an incomp
etent administration.
And if I’m elected president, that will not change, I will tell you, that will
 not change over the next four years. We have an administration that will not ch
ange. But if I get in there, it’s going to change, and it’s going to change 
quickly. We’re going from totally incompetent to just the opposite, believe me
.


TRUMP: Thank you.
With 50 people dead and perhaps more ultimately and dozens more wounded, we cann
ot afford to talk around issues anymore. We have to address these issues head-on
. I called for a ban after San Bernardino and was met with great scorn and anger
 but now many years and I have to say many years but many are saying that I was 
right to do so. And although the pause is temporary we must find out what is goi
ng on. We have to do it.
It will be lifted — this ban — when and as a nation we’re in a position to
 properly and perfectly screen these people coming into our country. They’re p
ouring in and we don’t know what we’re doing. The immigration laws of the Un
ited States give the president powers to suspend entry into the country of any c
lass of persons. Now, any class — it really is determined and to be determined
 by the president for the interests of the United States. And it’s as he or sh
e deems appropriate. Hopefully it’s he in this case.


Thank you. I will use this power to protect the American people. When I’m elec
ted I will suspend immigration from areas of the world where there’s a proven 
history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies until we fu
lly understand how to end these threats. After a full ...


Thank you.
And by the way we have no choice. After a full and partial and long — really l
ong overdue security assessment we will develop a responsible immigration policy
 that serves the interests and values of America.


We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our 
country many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer. Many o
f the principles of radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and insti
tutions.
 Remember this, radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti- American.


I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, 
Jewish people are targets of persecution and intimation by radical Islamic preac
hers of hate and violence.


This is not just a national security issue. It’s a quality of life issue. If w
e want to protect the quality of life for all Americans — women and children, 
gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people then we need to tell the tr
uth about radical Islam and we need to do it now.


We need to tell the truth also about how radical Islam is coming to our shores. 
And it’s coming ...


With these people, folks, it’s coming. We’re importing radical Islamic terro
rism into the West through a failed immigration system and through an intelligen
ce community held back by our president. Even our own FBI director has admitted 
that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of people we’re letting into 
America. All of the September 11th hijackists were issued visas. Large numbers o
f Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.
The Boston bombers came here through political asylum. The male shooter in San B
ernardino again whose name I will not mention was the child of immigrants from P
akistan and he brought his wife, the other terrorist from Saudi Arabia through a
nother one of our easily exploited visa programs.


TRUMP: Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly 
five fold — five fold in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99 percent 
of the people in Afghanistan support oppressive sharia law. We admit many more, 
and that’s just the way it is. We admit many more from other countries in the 
region.
And I’ll tell you what: They share these oppressive views and values. We want 
to remain a free and open society. Then, and if we do, then we have to control o
ur borders. We have to control, and we have to control them now, not later. Righ
t now.


Thank you.
Yet Hillary Clinton, for months, and despite so many attacks, repeatedly refused
 to even say the words radical Islam until I challenged her yesterday. And, gues
s what, she will probably say them. She sort of has said them, but let’s see w
hat happens. She really has no choice, but she doesn’t want to.
However, she’s really been forced, and she has been forced to say these words.
 She supports, and the reason is, she supports so much of what is wrong, and wha
t is wrong with this country, and what’s going wrong with our country and our 
borders. She has no clue, in my opinion, what radical Islam is and she won’t s
peak honestly about it if she does, in fact, know. She’s in total denial, and 
her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the 
entire world — true weakness.
I don’t know if you know this, but just a few weeks before San Bernardino, the
 slaughter, that’s all it was was a slaughter, Hillary Clinton explained her r
efusal to say the words "radical Islam." Here is what she said, exact quote, "Mu
slims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with t
errorism." That is Hillary Clinton.
So, she says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France which has am
ong the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, and 130 people were brutally mu
rdered by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law abiding Am
ericans, abolishing the Second Amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terr
orists with guns. No good. Not going to happen, folks. Not going to happen. Not 
going to happen.
Thank you.
She wants to take away American’s guns and then admit the very people who want
 to slaughter us. Let them come into the country, we don’t have guns. Let them
 come in, let them have all the fun they want.
I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in
 a presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to prote
ct themselves in this age of terror. I will be always defending the Second Amend
ment.


Thank you. Thank you.
The bottom line is that Hillary supports policies that bring the threat of radic
al Islam into American and allow it to grow oversees, and it is growing. In fact
, Hillary Clinton’s catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more radic
al Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our society but o
ur entire way of life. When it comes to radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is 
not bliss. It’s deadly — totally deadly.
The Obama administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has al
so damaged our security by restraining our intelligence gathering and we have, j
ust, no intelligence gathering information. We need this information so badly, a
nd he stopped it. We don’t have the support. We don’t have the support of th
e law enforcement system because Obama is not letting them do their job. They ar
e not being allowed to do their job. And, they can do it well — better than an
ybody.
We need a new leader. We need a new leader fast.


TRUMP: Thank you.
They have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and a
bove all else. I refuse to be politically correct.


I want to do the right thing. I want to straighten things out and I want to make
 America great again.


The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon if I’m elected. 
As president I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and militar
y the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks. They don’t have those tool
s now.


We need an intelligence gathering system second to none. Second to none. That in
cludes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials, and with o
ur allies, very importantly. I will have an Attorney General, a Director of Nati
onal Intelligence and a Secretary of Defense who’ll know how to fight a war on
 radical Islamic terrorism.


And they will have the support that they need to get the job done right, not lik
e it is right now. It’s not right.


We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need t
o understand the threat. The Senate subcommittee on Immigration has already iden
tified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the Unite
d States since September 11th. Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked 
President Obama’s Department of Justice, State and Homeland Security to provid
e the immigration history of all terrorists inside the United States. These Depa
rtments refused to comply. Nobody even knows why. They refused to comply.
President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all 
individuals implicated in terrorist activities of any kind since September 11th.
 So important. The public has a right to know how these people got here, how the
y came on to this great land, why are they here?


We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with or support
ing radical groups and beliefs, very simple. We have to control the amount of fu
ture immigration into this country and we have to prevent large pockets of radic
alization from forming inside America. Not complicated.


Every – and just think of this. Take a look. Every single event, even a single
 individual can be devastating, and all you have to do is take a look at what ha
ppened in Orlando and what happened in other cases. Just a single event. And jus
t one person. Can you imagine what they’ll do in large groups, which we’re a
llowing now to come here.
Truly our President doesn’t know what he’s doing. He’s failed us and he’
s failed us badly. Under his leadership this situation will not get any better, 
it will only get worse. And I’ve been saying that for a long time. Each year t
he United States permanently admits 100,000 immigrants from the Middle East and 
many more from Muslim countries outside of the Middle East. Our government has b
een admitting ever- growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan
 for our own security.
In fact, Clinton’s State Department was in charge of admissions and the admiss
ions process for people applying to enter from overseas. Having learned nothing 
from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a scr
eening plan including a 500 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our 
country. Tell me, tell me – how stupid is that?
This could be a better, bigger, more horrible version than the legendary Trojan 
Horse ever was. Altogether, under the Clinton plan, you’d be admitting hundred
s of thousands of refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or t
o prevent the radicalization of the children and their children. Not only their 
children, by the way, they’re trying to take over our children and convince th
em how wonderful ISIS is and how wonderful Islam is and we don’t know what’s
 happening.
TRUMP: The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration 
from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system 
to really to screen. We’re not screening people.
So why don’t we have an effective screening system? We don’t. We’re being 
laughed at all over the world. The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why w
e should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against
 gay and lesbian Americans. The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she 
will pay for it, her plan will cost hundreds of billions of dollars long term.
Wouldn’t this be money better spent rebuilding America for our current populat
ion including the many poor people already living here. We have cities, we have 
inner cities...


We have poverty all over and this is how we’re spending billions of dollars. W
e have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States. We
 don’t know who they are, they have no documentation and we don’t know what 
they’re planning and we won’t unless we have proper supervisor and proper le
adership in which case they’re out of here. What I want...


What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promote
s American values. That’s a choice I put before the American people. A mainstr
eam immigration policy designed to benefit America or Hillary Clinton’s radica
l immigration policy designed to benefit politically correct special interests. 
That’s all it is. We’ve got to get smart and tough and vigilant and we’ve 
got to do it now because later is too late — going to be too late for our coun
try.
The media talks about home grown terrorism but Islamic radicalism and that’s a
 very, very important term — a term that the president refuses to use and the 
networks that nurture it are imports from overseas whether you like it or whethe
r you don’t like it. Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our
 country as a result of poor policies of the past.
But the whole point is that we will be much, much and it will be easier to deal 
with our current problem if we don’t keep on bringing people who add to the pr
oblem. And that’s what they’re doing. We’re letting all of these people 
 hundreds of thousands of people come in and all they’re doing is adding to t
his incredible problem we have.
For instance, the controversial mosque attended by the Boston bombers had at its
 founder and as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassinati
on plot. This shooter and amazingly in Orlando was the child of an immigrant fat
her who supported one of the most repressive regimes on earth. Why would we admi
t people who support violent hatred?
Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as s
he continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to ou
r country and who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesn’t share their view
s or values.


She can’t have it both ways. She can’t claim to be supportive of these commu
nities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppre
ss these same communities. How does this kind of immigration make our lives bett
er? How does this kind of immigration make our country better? Why does Hillary 
Clinton want to bring people in in vast numbers who reject our values? Why? Expl
ain.
Ask yourself who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald Tr
ump with actions or Hillary Clinton with her words?
TRUMP: I will tell you who the better friend is and some day I believe that will
 be proven out bigly (ph).


And by the way the LGBT community is just — what’s happened to them is just 
so sad and to be thinking about where their policies are currently with this adm
inistration is a disgrace to that community, I will tell you right now.
Clinton wants to allow radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our country. They
 enslave women, and they murder gays. I don’t want them in our country.


Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who d
oesn’t support our communities. All of our communities, every single one of th
em. Americans already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on Ea
rth, anybody in the world. Four times more. At least, because we don’t even kn
ow who’s coming in. And we continue to admit millions more with no real checks
 or scrutiny.
Not surprisingly, wages for our workers haven’t budged. In almost 20 years. Yo
u wonder why we get the crowds, you wonder why we get this tremendous support, y
ou wonder why I’ve gotten more votes than any Republican in any primary in the
 history of the Republican Party? Take a look at that. Take a look at your secur
ity, take a look at the wages. For 18 years they’ve been stagnant, they’ve e
ven gone down.
So whether it’s a matter of national security, or financial security, we can
t afford to keep on going like this. Cannot afford it. We owe $19 trillion in d
ebt. And no longer have any options. Our communities from all backgrounds are re
ady for some relief. This is not an act of offense against anyone. It’s really
 an act of defense. I want us all, all of us, to work together. We have to form 
a partnership, with our Muslim communities. We have Muslim communities in this c
ountry that are great, and we have to form that partnership.
Now, the Muslim community, so important. They have to work with us. They have to
 cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad. Th
ey know it. And they have to do it, and they have to do it forthwith. I want to 
fix our schools. I want to fix our bridges. And our jobs market, we’re going t
o have it rocket again, we’re going to make great trade deals. But I want ever
y American to succeed including Muslims.
But the Muslims have to work with us. They have to work with us. They know what
s going on. They know that he was bad. They knew the people in San Bernardino 
were bad. But you know what? They didn’t turn them in. And you know what? We h
ad death, and destruction.
Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into the country
 that include individuals who preach hate against our citizens. I want to protec
t our citizens, all of our citizens. The terrorist attack on Pulse nightclub dem
ands a full and complete investigation into every single aspect of the assault. 
In San Bernardino, as an example, people who knew what was going on, they knew e
xactly, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it. They 
said oh, "We thought so but we didn’t want to use racial profiling." Which was
 probably an excuse given to them by their lawyer, so they don’t get in troubl
e.
We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends a
nd associates. We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical mosques or 
radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status. We have to know
, and we have to know fast. We need to know if he traveled anywhere and who he t
raveled with. We need to know, and we need to make sure, every single last perso
n involved in this plan, including anyone who knew something but didn’t tell u
s, is brought to justice, so when people know what’s going on and they don’t
 tell us, and we have an attack, and people die, these people have to have conse
quences. Big consequences.


America must do more — much more — to protect its citizens, especially peopl
e who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orien
tation, as you just saw in Orlando.
TRUMP: It also means we must change our foreign policy. The decision to overthro
w the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in Syria, am
ong other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for ISIS t
o expand and grow like nobody has ever seen before.
These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our abilit
y to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region. That is why our n
ew goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism not nation building. No more nation 
building. It’s never going to work.
And by the way we’ve spent almost $5 trillion over the years on trying to nati
on build in the Middle East and it has been complete and total disaster. We’re
 further away now than we were 15 years ago. For instance, the last major NATO m
ission was Hillary Clinton’s war in Libya. That mission helped to unleash ISIS
 on a new continent.
I’ve said NATO need to change its focus and stop terrorism. We have to focus o
n terrorism and we have to stop terrorism. Since I’ve raised that criticism an
d it’s OK. I’ve gotten no credit for it but these are minor details — NATO
 has since announced a new initiative — front page of the Wall Street Journal 
four days ago focused on just that. America must unite the whole civilized world
 in the fight against Islamic terrorism.


Pretty much like we did with communism during the Cold War. We tried it Presiden
t Obama’s way, doesn’t work. He gave the world his apology tour. We got ISIS
 and many other problems in return. That’s what we got. Remember the famous ap
ology tour. We’re sorry for everything.
I’d like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solitarily with 
the people of Orlando who have come under this horrific attack. When I’m presi
dent I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live inside our borders. W
herever they come from, wherever they were born, I don’t care. All Americans l
iving here and following our laws not other laws will be protected.


Thank you. Thank you. We’re going to be tough and we’re going to be smart an
d we’re going to do it right. America will be a tolerant and open society. Ame
rica will also be a safe society. We will protect our borders at home. We will d
efeat ISIS overseas. We have no choice. We will ensure every parent can raise th
eir children in peace and safety. We will make America rich again. We will make 
America safe again. We will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you very 
much. Thank you very much.


Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you.


Good evening. Thank you very much. I speak to you today as a lifelong supporter 
and true friend of Israel. I am a newcomer to politics but not to backing the Je
wish state.
In late 2001, weeks after the attacks on New York City, and on Washington, and f
rankly the attacks on all of us, attacks that perpetrated... and they were perpe
trated by the Islamic fundamentalists, Mayor Rudy Giuliani visited Israel to sho
w solidarity with terror victims. I sent my plane because I backed the mission f
or Israel 100 percent.
In Spring of 2004, at the height of the violence in the Gaza Strip, I was the Gr
and Marshal of the 40th Salute to Israel Parade, the largest single gathering in
 support of the Jewish state. It was a very dangerous time for Israel and frankl
y for anyone supporting Israel, many people turned down this honor. I did not. I
 took the risk and I’m glad I did.
But I didn’t come here tonight to pander to you about Israel. That’s what po
liticians do. All talk, no action, believe me. I came here to speak to you about
 where I stand on the future of American relations with our strategic ally, our 
unbreakable friendship, and our cultural brother. The only democracy in the Midd
le East, the State of Israel.
My number one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran. I have bee
n in business a long time. I know deal-making and let me tell you, this deal is 
catastrophic, for America, for Israel, and for the whole of the Middle East.
The problem here is fundamental. We have rewarded the world’s leading state sp
onsor of terror with $150 billion dollars, and we received absolutely nothing in
 return.
I’ve studied this issue in great detail. I would say actually, greater by far 
than anybody else. Believe me, and it’s a bad deal. The biggest concern with t
he deal is not necessarily that Iran is going to violate it, because already, as
 you know, it has. The bigger problem is that they can keep the terms and still 
get the bomb by simply running out the clock. And of course, they’ll keep the 
billions and billions of dollars that we so stupidly and foolishly gave them.
The deal doesn’t even require Iran to dismantle its military nuclear capabilit
y. Yes, it places limits on its military nuclear program for only a certain numb
er of years. But when those restrictions expire, Iran will have an industrial si
ze military nuclear capability ready to go, and with zero provision for delay, n
o matter how bad Iran’s behavior is. Terrible, terrible situation that we are 
all placed in, and especially Israel.
When I’m president, I will adopt a strategy that focuses on three things when 
it comes to Iran. First, we will stand up to Iran’s aggressive push to destabi
lize and dominate the region. Iran is a very big problem and will continue to be
, but if I’m not elected President, I know how to deal with trouble, and belie
ve me, that’s why I’m going to be elected president folks. And we are leadin
g in every poll, remember that please.
Iran is a problem in Iraq, a problem in Syria, a problem in Lebanon, a problem i
n Yemen, and will be a very, very major problem for Saudi Arabia. Literally ever
y day, Iran provides more and better weapons to support their puppet states. Hez
bollah, Lebanon received, and I’ll tell you what, it has received sophisticate
d anti-ship weapons, anti-aircraft weapons, and GPS systems and rockets. like ve
ry few people anywhere in the world, and certainly very few countries have.
Now they’re in Syria trying to establish another front against Israel from the
 Syrian side of the Golan Heights. In Gaza, Iran is supporting Hamas and Islamic
 Jihad. And in the West Bank they’re openly offering Palestinians $7,000 per t
error attack and $30,000 for every Palestinian terrorist’s home that’s been 
destroyed. A deplorable, deplorable situation. Iran is financing military forces
 throughout the Middle East, and it’s absolutely incredible that we handed the
m over $150 billion to do even more toward the many horrible acts of terror.
Secondly, we will totally dismantle Iran’s global terror network, which is big
 and powerful, but not powerful like us. Iran has seeded terror groups all over 
the world. During the last five years, Iran has perpetrated terror attacks in 25
 different countries on five continents. They’ve got terror cells everywhere, 
including in the western hemisphere very close to home. Iran is the biggest spon
sor of terrorism around the world and we will work to dismantle that reach, beli
eve me, believe me.
Third, at the very least, we must enforce the terms of the previous deal, to hol
d Iran totally accountable. And we will enforce it like you’ve never seen a co
ntract enforced before folks. Believe me.
Iran has already since the deal is in place, test-fired ballistic missiles three
 times. Those ballistic missiles with a range of 1,250 miles were designed to in
timidate not only Israel, which is only 600 miles away, but also intended to fri
ghten Europe, and maybe someday hit even the United States. And we’re not goin
g to let that happen. We’re not letting it happen, and we’re not letting it 
happen to Israel, believe me.
Do you want to hear something really shocking? As many of the great people in th
is room know, painted on those missiles in both Hebrew and Farsi, were the words
 "Israel must be wiped off the face of the earth." You can forget that!
What kind of demented minds write that in Hebrew? And here’s, you talk about t
wisted, here’s another twisted part: testing these missiles does not even viol
ate the horrible deal that we made! The deal is silent on test missiles, but tho
se tests do violate United Nations Security Council resolutions. The problem is,
 no one has done anything about it. We will, we will, I promise we will.
Which brings me to my next point. The utter weakness and incompetence of the Uni
ted Nations. The United Nations is not a friend of democracy. It’s not a frien
d to freedom. It’s not a friend even to the United States of America, where as
 you know, it has its home. And it surely is not a friend to Israel.
With President Obama in his final year, yay! He may be the worst thing to ever h
appen to Israel, believe me. Believe me, and you know it, and you know it better
 than anybody.
So with the president in his final year, discussions have been swirling about an
 attempt to bring a Security Council resolution on terms of an eventual agreemen
t between Israel and Palestine. Let me be clear. An agreement imposed by the Uni
ted Nations would be a total and complete disaster. The United States must oppos
e this resolution and use the power of our veto, which I will use as president, 
100 percent.
When people ask why, it’s because that’s not how you make a deal. Deals are 
made when parties come together. They come to a table and they negotiate. Each s
ide must give up something it values, I mean we have to do something where there
’s value in exchange for something that it requires. That’s what a deal is. 
A deal is really something that when we impose it on Israel and Palestine, we br
ing together a group of people that come up with something. That’s not going t
o happen with the United Nations. It will only further, very importantly, it wil
l only further delegitimize Israel. It will be a catastrophe and a disaster for 
Israel. It’s not going to happen folks.
And further, it would reward Palestinian terrorism, because every day they’re 
stabbing Israelis, and even Americans. Just last week, American Taylor Allen For
ce, a West Point grad, phenomenol young person who served in Iraq and Afghanista
n, was murdered in the street by a knife-wielding Palestinian. You don’t rewar
d behavior like that. You can not do it! There is only one way you treat that ki
nd of behavior. You have to confront it!
So, it’s not up the United Nations to go with a solution. It’s really the pa
rties that must negotiate a resolution themselves. You have no choice. They have
 to do it themselves, or it will never hold up anyway. The United States can be 
useful as a facilitator of negotiations, but no one should be telling Israel tha
t it must abide by some agreement made by others thousands of miles away that do
n’t even really know what’s happening to Israel, to anything in the area. It
’s so preposterous. We’re not going to let that happen. When I’m president
, believe me, I will veto any attempt by the UN to impose its will on the Jewish
 state. It will be vetoed 100 percent.
You see, I know about deal-making. That’s what I do. I wrote ‘The Art of the
 Deal’. One of the best-selling, all-time, and I mean seriously, I’m saying 
‘one of’, because I’ll be criticized as though I say ‘the’, so I’m g
oing to be very diplomatic. One of... I’ll be criticized. I think it is number
 one, but why take a chance. One of the best-selling, all-time books about deals
 and deal making.
To make a great deal, you need two willing participants. We know Israel is willi
ng to deal. Israel has been trying to sit down at the negotiating table without 
pre-conditions for years. You had Camp David in 2000, where Prime Minister Barak
 made an incredible offer, maybe even too generous. Arafat rejected it. In 2008,
 Prime Minister Olmert made an equally generous offer. The Palestinian Authority
 rejected it also. Then John Kerry tried to come up with a framework and Abbas d
idn’t even respond, not even to the Secretary of State of the United States of
 America. They didn’t even respond.
When I become President, the days of treating Israel like a second-class citizen
 will end on Day One. And when I say something, I mean it. I mean it. I will mee
t with Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately. I have known him for many years and
 we’ll be able to work closely together to help bring stability and peace to I
srael and to the entire region.
Meanwhile, every single day, you have rampant incitement and children being taug
ht to hate Israel and hate the Jews. It has to stop. When you live in a society 
where the firefighters are the hero’s, little kids want to be firefighters. Wh
en you live in a society where athletes and movie stars are the heroes, little k
ids want to be athletes and movie stars. In Palestinian society, the heroes are 
those who murder Jews. we can’t let this continue. We can’t let this happen 
any longer.
You cannot achieve peace if terrorists are treated as martyrs. Glorifying terror
ists is a tremendous barrier to peace. It is a horrible, horrible way to think. 
It’s a barrier that can’t be broken. That will end, and it’ll end soon, be
lieve me. In Palestinian textbooks and mosques, you’ve got a culture of hatred
 that has been fermenting there for years, and if we want to achieve peace, they
’ve got to go out, and they’ve got to start this educational process. They h
ave to end education of hatred. They have to end it, and now!
There is no moral equivalency. Israel does not name public squares after terrori
sts. Israel does not pay its children to stab random Palestinians. You see, what
 President Obama gets wrong about deal making is that he constantly applies pres
sure to our friends and rewards our enemies. And you see that happening all the 
time. That pattern practiced by the President and his administration, including 
former Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, who is a total disaster by the way. 
She and President Obama have treated Israel very, very badly. But its repeated i
tself over and over again, and has done nothing to embolden those who hate Ameri
ca. We saw that with releasing the $150 billion dollars to Iran in the hope that
 they would magically join the world community. It didn’t happen.
President Obama thinks that applying pressure to Israel will force the issue, bu
t it’s precisely the opposite that happened. Already, half of the population o
f Palestine has been taken over by the Palestinian ISIS in Hamas, and the other 
half refuses to confront the first half, so it’s a very difficult situation th
ats never going to get solved, unless you have great leadership right here in th
e United States. We’ll get it solved, one way or the other. We will get it sol
ved. But when the United States stands with Israel, the chances of peace really 
rise, and rises exponentially. That’s what will happen when Donald Trump is Pr
esident of the United States.
We will move the American embassy to the eternal capital of the Jewish people, J
erusalem. And we will send a clear signal that there is no daylight between Amer
ica and our most reliable ally, the State of Israel. The Palestinians must come 
to the table knowing that the bond between the United States and Israel is absol
utely, totally unbreakable. They must come to the table willing and able to stop
 the terror being committed on a daily basis against Israel. They must do that. 
And they must come to the table willing to accept that Israel is a Jewish State 
and it will forever exist as a Jewish State.
I love the people in this room. I love Israel. I love Israel. I’ve been with I
srael so long in terms of, I’ve received some of my greatest honors from Israe
l. My father before me, incredible. My daughter Ivanka is about to have a beauti
ful Jewish baby. In fact it could be happening right now which would be very nic
e as far as I’m concerned.
So I want to thank you very much. This has been a truly great honor. Thank you e
verybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Wow. Thank you very much. Hello. I’d like to begin by thanking the people of M
ontana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey and California. We had some big, bi
g days and we have some big numbers coming in, very big numbers.
I’m truly honored by your support. Together, we accomplished what nobody thoug
ht was absolutely possible and you know what that is and we’re only getting st
arted and it’s going to be beautiful, remember that.
Tonight we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign recei
ved more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history, no matter who it is, no
 matter who they are, we received more votes. This is a great feeling. That’s 
a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed 
real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible. You’ve given me th
e honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall. We’re going to do i
t. We’re going to do it, folks. We’re going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever le
t you down – too much work, too many people, blood, sweat and tears. I’m nev
er going to let you down. I will make you proud of your party and our movement, 
and that’s what it is, is a movement.
Now recent polls have shown that I’m beating Hillary Clinton and with all of h
er many problems and the tremendous mistakes that she’s made and she has treme
ndous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially. T
o everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I wan
t to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn yo
ur support and I will work very hard to earn that support. To all of those Berni
e Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super 
delegates, we welcome you with open arms. And by the way, the terrible trade dea
ls that Bernie was so vehemently against and he’s right on that will be taken 
care of far better than anyone ever thought possible and that’s what I do. We 
are going to have fantastic trade deals. We’re going to start making money and
 bringing in jobs.
Now I know some people say I’m too much of a fighter. My preference is always 
peace, however and I’ve shown that. I’ve shown that for a long time. I built
 an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties i
nvolved, always. My goal is always again to bring people together. But if I’m 
forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never, ever back down 
and our country will never, ever back down.
Thank you. I’ve fought for my family. I’ve fought for my business. I’ve fo
ught for my employees. And now, I’m going to fight for you, the American peopl
e like nobody has ever fought before. And I’m not a politician fighting, I’m
 me. You’re going to see some real good things happen.
Just remember this: I’m going to be your champion. I’m going to be America
s champion because you see this election isn’t about Republican or Democrat; 
it’s about who runs this country – the special interests or the people and I
 mean the American people.
Every election year politicians promise change. Obama promised change and it did
n’t work out too well. And every year they fail to deliver. Why would politici
ans want to change a system that’s totally rigged in order to keep them in pow
er? That’s what they’re doing, folks. Why would politicians want to change a
 system that’s made them and their friends very, very wealthy? I beat a rigged
 system by winning with overwhelming support, the only way you could’ve done i
t – landslides all over the country with every demographic on track to win; 37
 primary caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.
After years of disappointment, there is one thing we all have learned – we can
’t fix the rigged system by relying on very, and I mean this so, so strongly, 
on the very people who rigged it, and they rigged it, and do not ever think anyt
hing differently. We can’t solve our problems by counting on the politicians w
ho created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form fo
r themselves. They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, sel
ling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of do
llars. Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private s
erver. Something about how she’s getting away with this folks nobody understan
ds.
Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the secu
rity of the entire country at risk and a President in a corrupt system is totall
y protecting her – not right. I am going to give a major speech on probably Mo
nday of next week and we’re going to be discussing all of the things that have
 taken place with the Clintons. I think you’re going to find it very informati
ve and very, very interesting. I wonder if the press will want to attend, who kn
ows.
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into her private hedge fund – the 
Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese – all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got
 favorable treatment in return. It’s a sad day in America when foreign governm
ents with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great cit
izens.
I didn’t need to do this. It’s not easy, believe me. I didn’t need to do i
t. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country which has been so good
 to me and to my family. I’ve traveled to many of our states and seen the suff
ering in people’s eyes. I’ve visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pe
nnsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs, they literal
ly, these jobs have virtually disappeared, an embarrassment to our country and i
t’s horrible. I’ve embraced the victims of illegal immigration, moms and dad
s who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldn’t hav
e been in the country – remember it, folks, remember it.
I visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools. I’ve seen our dilap
idated airports, highways, bridges and I’ve compared them to other countries w
here we see facilities so far superior to ours it’s really not to be believed,
 hard to imagine what’s happened to our country. America is getting taken apar
t piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly, auctioned off to the highest 
bidder. We’re broke, we’re broke. We owe $19 trillion dollars going quickly 
to $21 trillion. Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crim
e is rising. People are scared. The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the
 White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd, what a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country, we lov
e our country. But we can turn this all around. We’re going to do it by puttin
g America first. That commitment is the foundation for change that’s been miss
ing and it’s been missing for a long time. It’s important to understand what
 America First means. It means on foreign policy we will never enter into any ki
nd conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a n
ation. This is the opposite of Hillary’s foreign policy which invaded Libya, d
estabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass
 migration which is wreaking havoc all over the world, and while putting Iran on
 the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East
 and they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks. We have made them 
that way.
You better hope I’m President. On trade, America First means the American work
er will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition. What’s 
happening there is absolutely a disgrace. No PPP, you’re right about that and 
you mean no PP. We are going, and remember this; we are only going to have great
 trade deals, OK. We are only going to have that. We’re not going to approve, 
as somebody just said, the TransPacific Partnership which is a disaster, a disas
ter, for our country, almost as bad as NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton, which has j
ust stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them t
o other places, in particular Mexico. If it’s not a great deal for our country
, we will not sign it. It’s got to be great for our country, for our community
, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and we’re suff
ering bigly and it’s getting worse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up America’s great potential to 
bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers including our wonderful and hard-
working miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this Administratio
n.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that 
keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for midd
le class Americans and business; likewise, regulation which is strangling our ec
onomy which would be brought down from its present insane level. We will make it
 very, very good for our companies, for our small business and for people that w
ant to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages and securi
ty of American workers, whether first or tenth generation. No matter who you are
, we’re going to protect your job because let me tell you our jobs are being s
tripped from our country like we’re babies. The beauty of America First is tha
t it brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitl
ed to the same benefits, protections and rights and privileges; it’s got to be
 that way. Now, the people in charge say things can’t change. I’m here today
 to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to make our own product
s. We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to rebuild our inner
 cities which are absolutely a shame and so sad. We’re going to take care of o
ur African American people that have been mistreated for so long. We’re going 
to make you and your family safe, secure and prosperous, prosperous again. Toget
her, we will put the American people first again, first again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We wil
l make our country strong again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America grea
t again, remember. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.


Thank you for joining me today.


This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especi
ally in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be.


Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in tim
es of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be pres
ident.


There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later
 time, and I will deliver that speech soon.


But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism in
side of our borders.


The attack on the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was the worst terrorist s
trike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our count
ry’s history.


So many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a dis
grace.


The horror is beyond description.


The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated. Likewise, our who
le nation, and indeed the whole world, is devastated.


We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their familie
s.


We mourn, as one people, for our nation’s loss – and pledge our support to a
ny and all who need it.


I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims 
of the attack.


[SILENCE]


Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlando's LGBT Comm
unity.


This is a very dark moment in America’s history.


A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub not only because he wanted to
 kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens because of the
ir sexual orientation.


It is a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation.


It is an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who the
y want and express their identity.


It is an attack on the right of every single American to live in peace and safet
y in their own country.


We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people – with force
, purpose and determination.


But the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and th
ink and act clearly.


If we don't get tough, and we don't get smart – and fast – we're not going t
o have a country anymore -- there will be nothing left.


The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born to Afghan parents w
ho immigrated to the United States. His father published support for the Afghan 
Taliban, a regime which murders those who don’t share its radical views. The f
ather even said he was running for President of that country.


The bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in America in the first p
lace was because we allowed his family to come here.


That is a fact, and it's a fact we need to talk about.


We have a dysfunctional immigration system which does not permit us to know who 
we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens.


We have an incompetent administration, and if I am not elected President, that w
ill not change over the next four years -- but it must change, and it must chang
e now.


With fifty people dead, and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around
 the issue anymore -- we have to address it head on.


I called for a ban after San Bernardino, and was met with great scorn and anger 
but now, many are saying I was right to do so -- and although the pause is tempo
rary, we must find out what is going on. The ban will be lifted when we as a nat
ion are in a position to properly and perfectly screen those people coming into 
our country.


The immigration laws of the United States give the President the power to suspen
d entry into the country of any class of persons that the President deems detrim
ental to the interests or security of the United States, as he deems appropriate
.


I will use this power to protect the American people. When I am elected, I will 
suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven history of te
rrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies, until we understand how
 to end these threats.


After a full, impartial and long overdue security assessment, we will develop a 
responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of America.


We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our 
country, many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer.


Many of the principles of Radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and
 institutions.


Radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti-American.


I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, 
and Jewish people, are the targets of persecution and intimidation by Radical Is
lamic preachers of hate and violence.
It’s not just a national security issue. It is a quality of life issue.


If we want to protect the quality of life for all Americans – women and childr
en, gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people – then we need to tel
l the truth about Radical Islam.


We need to tell the truth, also, about how Radical Islam is coming to our shores
.


We are importing Radical Islamic Terrorism into the West through a failed immigr
ation system -- and through an intelligence community held back by our president
.


Even our own FBI Director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the back
grounds of the people we are letting into America.


All of the September 11th hijackers were issued visas.


Large numbers of Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.


The Boston Bombers came here through political asylum.


The male shooter in San Bernardino – again, whose name I won't mention -- was 
the child of immigrants from Pakistan, and he brought his wife – the other ter
rorist - from Saudi Arabia, through another one of our easily exploited visa pro
grams.


Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly five-fo
ld in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99% of people in Afghanistan sup
port oppressive Sharia Law.


We admit many more from other countries in the region who share these same oppre
ssive views.


If we want to remain a free and open society, then we have to control our border
s.


Yet, Hillary Clinton – for months and despite so many attacks – repeatedly r
efused to even say the words "radical Islam," until I challenged her yesterday t
o say the words or leave the race.


However, Hillary Clinton – who has been forced to say the words today after po
licies she supports have caused us so much damage – still has no clue what Rad
ical Islam is, and won’t speak honestly about what it is.


She is in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy bro
adcasts weakness across the world.


In fact, just a few weeks before the San Bernardino slaughter, Hillary Clinton e
xplained her refusal to say the words Radical Islam. Here is what she said: "Mus
lims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with te
rrorism."


Hillary Clinton says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France, whi
ch has among the toughest gun laws in the world, and 130 were brutally murdered 
by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law-abiding Americans
, abolishing the 2nd amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terrorists wit
h guns. She wants to take away Americans’ guns, then admit the very people who
 want to slaughter us.


I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in
 a Presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to prote
ct themselves in this age of terror.


The bottom line is that Hillary supports the policies that bring the threat of R
adical Islam into America, and allow it to grow overseas.


In fact, Hillary Clinton’s catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly mor
e Radical Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our securi
ty but our way of life.


When it comes to Radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss – it's dead
ly.


The Obama Administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has al
so damaged our security by restraining our intelligence-gathering and failing to
 support law enforcement. They have put political correctness above common sense
, above your safety, and above all else.


I refuse to be politically correct.


I will do the right thing--I want to straighten things out and to Make America G
reat Again.


The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon.


As President I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and militar
y the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks.


We need an intelligence-gathering system second to none. That includes better co
operation between state, local and federal officials – and with our allies.


I will have an Attorney General, a Director of National Intelligence, and a Secr
etary of Defense who will know how to fight the war on Radical Islamic Terrorism
 – and who will have the support they require to get the job done.


We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need t
o understand the threat.


The Senate Subcommittee on Immigration has already identified hundreds of immigr
ants charged with terrorist activities inside the United States since September 
11th.


Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked President Obama's Departments o
f Justice, State and Homeland Security to provide the immigration history of all
 terrorists inside the United States.


These Departments refused to comply.


President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all 
individuals implicated in terrorist activity of any kind since 9/11.


The public has a right to know how these people got here.


We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with, or suppor
t, radical groups and beliefs.


We have to control the amount of future immigration into this country to prevent
 large pockets of radicalization from forming inside America.


Even a single individual can be devastating, just look at what happened in Orlan
do. Can you imagine large groups?


Truly, our President doesn't know what he is doing. He has failed us, and failed
 us badly, and under his leadership, this situation will not get any better -- i
t will only get worse.


Each year, the United States permanently admits more than 100,000 immigrants fro
m the Middle East, and many more from Muslim countries outside the Middle East. 
Our government has been admitting ever-growing numbers, year after year, without
 any effective plan for our security.


In fact, Clinton's State Department was in charge of the admissions process for 
people applying to enter from overseas.


Having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase a
dmissions without a screening plan, including a 500% increase in Syrian refugees
.


This could be a better, bigger version of the legendary Trojan Horse.


We can't let this happen.


Altogether, under the Clinton plan, you'd be admitting hundreds of thousands of 
refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radi
calization of their children.


The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from th
ese dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system to scre
en who we are bringing in.


The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our 
country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian Americans.


The burden is also on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she will pay for it. Her pl
an will cost Americans hundreds of billions of dollars long-term.


Wouldn't this money be better spent on rebuilding America for our current popula
tion, including the many poor people already living here?


We have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States 
 we don't know who they are, they have no documentation, and we don't know what
 they're planning.


What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promote
s American values.


That is the choice I put before the American people: a mainstream immigration po
licy designed to benefit America, or Hillary Clinton's radical immigration polic
y designed to benefit politically-correct special interests.


We've got to get smart, and tough, and vigilant, and we've got to do it now, bec
ause later is too late.


The media talks about "homegrown," terrorism, but Islamic radicalism, and the ne
tworks that nurture it, are imports from overseas.


Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of
 the poor policies of the past. But the whole point is that it will be much, muc
h easier to deal with our current problem if we don’t keep on bringing in peop
le who add to the problem.


For instance, the controversial Mosque attended by the Boston Bombers had as its
 founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot.


This shooter in Orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one o
f the most repressive regimes on Earth. Why would we admit people who support vi
olent hatred?


Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as s
he continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to ou
r country who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesn’t share their views.


She can’t have it both ways. She can’t claim to be supportive of these commu
nities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppre
ss them.


How does this kind of immigration make our life better? How does this kind of im
migration make our country better?


Why does Hillary Clinton want to bring people here—in vast numbers—who rejec
t our values?


Ask yourself, who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald T
rump with his actions, or Hillary Clinton with her words? Clinton wants to allow
 Radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our country—they enslave women, and m
urder gays.


I don’t want them in our country.


Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who d
oesn’t support our communities – all of our communities.


America has already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on eart
h, and we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.


Not surprisingly, wages for our workers haven’t budged in many years.


So whether it’s matter of national security, or financial security, we can’t
 afford to keep on going like this. We owe $19 trillion in debt, and no longer h
ave options.


All our communities, from all backgrounds, are ready for some relief. This is no
t an act of offense against anyone; it is an act of defense.


I want us all to work together, including in partnership with our Muslim communi
ties. But Muslim communities must cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the
 people who they know are bad – and they do know where they are.


I want to fix our schools, roads, bridges and job market. I want every American 
to succeed. Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into
 the country that include individuals who preach hate against our own citizens.


I want to protect our citizens – all of our citizens.


The terrorist attack on the Pulse Night Club demands a full and complete investi
gation into every aspect of the assault.


In San Bernardino, as an example, people knew what was going on, but they used t
he excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it.


We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends a
nd associates.


We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical Mosques or radical activis
ts and what, if any, is their immigration status.


We need to know if he travelled anywhere, and who he travelled with.


We need to make sure every single last person involved in this plan – includin
g anyone who knew something but didn't tell us – is brought to justice.


If it can be proven that somebody had information about any attack, and did not 
give this information to authorities, they must serve prison time .


America must do more – much more – to protect its citizens, especially peopl
e who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orien
tations.


It also means we must change our foreign policy.


The decision to overthrow the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of
 the regime in Syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have 
created space for ISIS to expand and grow.


These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our abilit
y to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region.


That is why our new goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism, not nation-buildin
g.


For instance, the last major NATO mission was Hillary Clinton's war in Libya. Th
at mission helped unleash ISIS on a new continent.


I've said NATO needs to change its focus to stopping terrorism. Since I've raise
d that criticism, NATO has since announced a new initiative focused on just that
.


America must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against Islamic terror
ism, just like we did against communism in the Cold War.


We've tried it President Obama's way. He gave the world his apology tour, we got
 ISIS, and many other problems, in return.


I'd like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solidarity with th
e people of Orlando who have come under attack.


When I am President, I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live insid
e of our borders. Wherever they come from, wherever they were born, all American
s living here and following our laws will be protected.


America will be a tolerant and open society.


America will also be a safe society.


We will protect our borders at home.


We will defeat ISIS overseas.


We will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety.


We will make America rich again.


We will make America safe again.


We will make American Great Again.


Thank you.


...We’re doing really well. Iowa’s been amazing. It’s been amazing. We’r
e doing so well and I love this place and I’m back here all the time and I’m
 going to be here a lot in January.
You’re going to be so sick of me. You’ll probably say, "We can’t give – 
the caucus, just forget it. We can’t stand the guy any more."
No, you’re going to like me and we’re going to be back and we’re going to 
do a great job for you. Most importantly, we’re going to get to that office an
d we’re going to do the right thing. We’re going to do the right thing.
So, a few things. A lot – so much has happened.
You know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. And we were talk
ing border security, which we’re just doing so great with the border security.
We’re going to build a wall. Mexico’s going to pay for the wall. We all know
 that. But we’re going to have security. And the drugs are going to stop and t
he people that are going to come into the country but they’re going to come in
to the country they’re going to be legal, they’re coming in legally, and tha
t’s the way. That’s the way.
And it affects Iowa so much.
So we were talking about. So we were talking about that. We were talking about r
epealing Obamacare. Boom. It’s going to be repealed. It’s going to be replac
ed.
I don’t know if you’ve been seeing what’s happening but Obamacare is a tot
al disaster. It’s dying of its own weight.
And by ’17, meaning he’ll be playing golf and I’ll be working very hard. B
ut ’17 instead you’re not getting the people signed up. There’s been a lot
 of talk about it and a lot of stories about it.
Obamacare’s dead but we’ll terminate it quicker than that.
And we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better.
Premiums are going through the roof. Deductibles are so high that unless you’r
e close to death, you’ll never going to get to use. And even then I don’t th
ink you’re going to get to use it really.
So, we’re going to take care of that.
And by the way, we have a lot of good people. We have ethanol. Nobody is really 
– we have the ethanol – where are the ethanol people? Right?
I was here a month ago and I met with them all and they do a fantastic job. I to
ured the plants and they do a fantastic job but it’s so important. And it’s 
another form of let’s stay away from OPEC and let’s stay away from that Midd
le East stuff. It’s so important...
Actually what I don’t understand because the one guy that’s doing pretty goo
d with me in Iowa is Ted Cruz and he’s a nice guy. I mean, everything I say he
 agrees with me. No matter what I say.
I was going to do one really wild but he agrees.
But with the ethanol, really, he’s got to come a long way because he’s right
 now for the oil.
But I understand it. Oil pays him a lot of money. He’s got to be for oil, righ
t? The oil companies give him a lot of money.
But I’m with you. I’m with everybody. Look, I’m self funding. I have no oi
l company. I have no special interest. I have no lobbyist that want me and you k
now, they’re representing countries that are ripping off the country, they’r
e representing companies that are ripping off our country.
All I do is I’m going to be working for you folks. We’re going to do this th
ing together. We’re going to make America so great again and maybe better than
 ever before. So important.
So when we first started, I talked about China how they’re ripping us and Japa
n and Mexico.
Mexico both at the border and in trade. They’re taking so many of our companie
s. Nabisco’s moving there with their big plant. Ford is moving there with a bi
g plant. They took a big plant away from Tennessee – a great state – they to
ok it away at the last moment.
I’m not going to let that stuff. We’re going to do what we have to do, okay?
But I talked about that...and I talk about it a lot. The fact is that about 2.5 
weeks ago with Paris, I’m speaking a little bit differently now.


Believe me, I can take care of China in my back pocket. That’s easy for me. Th
at’s what I do.
And we have all the cards. A lot of people don’t know. You know, these politic
ians they don’t understand we have the cards.
You know, with China, our people pay tax. They pay no tax. It’s not supposed t
o be that way. They call it a tariff because it sounds better. But we’ll take 
care of that. We’ll take care of all of that.
What happened is with Paris, there’s a different mindset.
And when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people fel
t more secure with me.
Now, maybe it had to do – who knows why? Who knows?
But my poll numbers went up. And do you ever notice whenever there’s something
 that I do that’s proper but controversial, they’d say "Oh, now he’s gone.
 That’s it. That’s the end."
I won’t go over all of the different things because maybe you’ll change your
 minds.
But they’d say, "That’s it. It’s over."
And then they’d come in, "Sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week." I
 said, "They did?" Because I have to do what’s right. I have to do what’s ri
ght.
And you know what? If I don’t make it, I don’t make it.
I have a good life. We all hopefully have a good life. I have a great family, ni
ce people, wonderful people. They love me. I think. I hope. I think. But I have 
a great family and I built a great business.
...There’s such spirit...There’s such spirit no matter where I go. You know,
 I go to Dallas. We have 20,000. 35,000 people in Mobile, Alabama. 20,000 people
 in Oklahoma. Wherever we go in Iowa, we have these crowds. You know this is sup
posed to be...for like a record.
It is big and yet it feels intimate. It feels good...
...So I changed a couple of weeks ago. When I saw Paris I changed. And a big, bi
g part of what I’m doing now is safety and security and smartness and smartnes
s.
Sort of interesting. You know, the slogan is "Make America Great Again" and I’
m adding "Make America Great Again and Safe Again" because we don’t feel safe 
anymore.
And the problem we have now that we’ve never had to this extent is the power o
f weaponry. It’s the power. It’s the tremendous power.
You know, 100 years ago, I would have said "Let’s not go." I said "Don’t go 
there" anyway. And I said it strongly "Don’t go. You’re going to destabilize
 the Middle East."
But the fact is right now, we’re going to have to do things because we have so
me really, really sick degenerates.
And the press – look at all those cameras going all live, all – you know, no
body else has cameras like this. They can make a speech 100 times they make a sp
eech, nobody cares. Look at this.
And don’t worry, they never pan the crowd. You know, they never; they have me.
 That’s why I’m walking around. I figured I’ll walk around maybe they’ll
 get the crowd. They never pan the crowd. I tell them "Pan the crowd", they neve
r do.
...I had a crowd 7,000 people last week. More. 7,000 people and in a confined sp
ace. They had 3,000 people outside that couldn’t get in. My wife says, "Darlin
g, the speech was excellent. Did you have many people there?" I said "What?" She
 said, "Well, they never leave your face." They keep it purposely. But I’ll te
ll you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you can’t move them, right
?
But every time there’s a protester "Well, I’m protesting" and it can be in t
he back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there. It’s true. 
It’s true. It’s true.
No, I used to think they couldn’t move. You know, maybe there’s something wi
th the crazy computers.
You know, in the old days everything was better right? The car seats. You’d si
t in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a button. Bing, b
ing. Now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes.
Well, the same thing I figured with cameras. I didn’t think they moved. I figu
red they were fixed for certain reasons. And then I saw a protester and those ca
meras were bent in positions like you wouldn’t believe possible.
So, they’re very dishonest people. What can I say? Not all of them but most of
 them.


I’ll tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard.
 The Des Moines Register is the worst. They are the worst. The worst. No, they
re very dishonest.
You have some reporter named Jacobs. She is the worst. She will write – so –
 it’s such misrepresentation. And so I don’t care. I mean, who cares? So I
m saying it right in their backyard. They’re failing anyway. They probably wo
n’t be in business in two years. I think they’re losing a fortune. I think.
You know, it’s funny. Every time the Des Moines Register does a poll, I always
 do badly.
...I’m only doing this so they don’t sue me but I don’t mind if they do. I
 hope they sue me because they don’t have enough money to sue me. That’s the
 good thing.
But I believe and I may be wrong – in fact, I’ll say I’m sure I’m wrong 
but it’s my opinion that they don’t do it properly because you know they pol
l like 300 or 400 people. I’ll explain it...You know, if they lose 20 people i
n the pocket. "Oh, Trump? Oh, forget that one. Forget that one."
Now, I don’t know that they do that. Do you do that, Des Moines Register?
But every time I have a Des Moines Register poll, I do poorly. I also do poorly 
with the Bloomberg polls. I don’t know why.
But we had a great poll come in – CNN last couple of days – where we’re le
ading I think by 13 points in Iowa. In Iowa.
And then we have another coming where we’re doing well.
But I think Des Moines Register has somebody says it’s coming out sometime. I
ll just tell you, watch – "Trump disappears!"
I think we’re going to do so well. I think we’re actually going to even do b
etter. You know, we’re leading in most of the poll. We’re leading in every p
oll.
Except Iowa there was one poll – there was one poll, Monmouth – I’d never 
even heard Monmouth. What the hell is Monmouth? What is Monmouth? Explain it. I 
don’t like Monmouth. You know why I don’t like it? Because they always treat
 me badly also.
But I only like polls that treat me well.
But we’re doing so well. Nationwide, we’re leading every poll by tremendous.
 We just had one in Georgia – 44%. 44%. Think of that. That’s 44% with 15 pe
ople. I’d take 44% if we had three people. I don’t think I’d take it if we
 had two people but I think I’d take if we had three. But 44%.
CBS came out as you know, you probably saw that, New York Times two days ago and
 we’re at 35% to a small number. We’re killing everybody in every poll. Just
 one little outlier here.
...Again, I’m sure when Des Moines comes out it’ll be a negative because I d
on’t believe that poll.
But we are going to win. And I’ll tell you what. Honestly, Iowa is so importan
t to me. I could say, "Oh, let’s not do" – I am an evangelical. I am a Chris
tian. I’m a Presbyterian. I’m a Presbyterian. I love Billy Graham.
Franklin Graham came out with the most beautiful statements. Franklin Graham. He
 was so incredible. He came out – I don’t know if you all saw the statements
 he came out with about Trump...He was so incredible. Franklin Graham was amazin
g, the son of Billy Graham, who was, you know, there’s nobody, nobody that I
ve ever seen – Billy Graham was unbelievable. If anybody’s gone to his crus
ades, they were incredible.
But so I think we’re going to do – we’re doing really well with the evange
licals...
And by the way and again, I do like Ted Cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come 
out of Cuba in all fairness. It’s true. Not a lot come out. But I like him nev
ertheless.
I think we’re going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. We
re doing great with the Tea Party, leading with the Tea Party.
And we’re doing fantastic with all the young and middle. We’re doing great w
ith everybody.
And so it’s very important for me to win Iowa.


Now, I could put less pressure on myself and I could say, "Oh, I don’t care ab
out Iowa. I don’t care." But I do care. I do care so much about it. That’s w
hy we’re here all the time.
And then the lies happened. You know, when I was using Iowa, they lied so much. 
I said, "The people of Iowa can’t be that stupid or the people of the country 
can’t – ". I’m trying to make a point, right? So I said, "The people of th
e country can’t be that stupid." Well, they cut the "country" out so it’s re
ferring to Iowa.
I love you people. Remember that. Remember that.
I was talking about something, and I won’t even mention what I’m talking abo
ut because the guy I’m talking about and was actually a very good guy.
But I will say this. We want to win Iowa so bad. Because if I win Iowa, I think 
we’d run the table. I really do. I think we’d run the table. We’d go right
 through.
Because we’re leading big in New Hampshire – every poll. Big. Big in New Ham
pshire. Christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up there. It’s t
he weirdest deal I’ve ever seen.
And you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, "Are you sure a
bout that? Nobody ever called us." They can’t believe it. And we can get into 
that but it’s irrelevant.
But we’re leading New Hampshire big. We’re leading in South Carolina like mo
nstrous numbers. We’re leading...Nevada. We’re leading in Texas. We’re lea
ding everywhere. We’re leading big in Florida.
Now, you have Rubio – nice guy, by the way. You have Rubio and he is a nice gu
y but you’ve got to vote. When people put you in a position to be a Senator, y
ou’ve got to go and vote. You can’t be the number one person that doesn’t 
vote in the Senate. You’ve got to say, "Hey, I’m a young guy. I want to go a
nd vote." You should stay there a little longer. He’s a good guy. Stay there, 
go in, vote, create a nice record.
But I don’t know. How’s he doing in Iowa? Not too good. Right? He’s not do
ing well. How’s Rubio doing? Not good.
I mean, it seems like a two-person race right now...and it’s an important race
 to me. So I just want to let you know it’s very important.
So with all of that, if we win Iowa, a lot of people say we’d just go through.
 I think we’ll win virtually every state in the Union and it’s over quickly.
 Over quickly.
...What about the Republican establishment? The establishment’s got a problem,
 you know. It’s sort of like the fighters. You know, the great champions. Some
times they’ll go into the hometown of a guy they’re fighting and they’ll s
ay, "You know, we’d never want to get a decision. We go for the knock-out. The
 knock-out is the knock-out." Because you get a lot of bad decisions. I know a l
ot about the world of sports, believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight a
nd it’s a decision and they say, "Uh, we’re in a problem" and they’d lose 
the fight that they won. The only way they win the fight definitely – knock ou
t.
So, if we win Iowa, I think we’re going to win everything after that. So I thi
nk it’s going to show how important Iowa is.
...I’ll pledge this to Iowa. Even if I lose, I’ll pledge it, okay? I don’t
 think I’ve ever said that in my life. If we go and win, Iowa’s staying righ
t where it is in the chain. It’s not moving. You know, there’s a big move to
 move Iowa into a much further back position by the establishment. Folks, I win 
it’s not happening, okay? You’re staying right here because it’s great. It
’s great.




...You’ve been paying into Social Security and Medicare, by the way. Let’s p
ut them in. Because Medicare does work. With both, you have tremendous waste, fr
aud, and abuse. We’re going to take care of that. Okay?
But we’re not going to cut your Social Security and we’re not cutting your M
edicare. We’re going to take jobs back from all these countries that are rippi
ng us off. We’re going to become a wealthy country again. And we’re going to
 be able to save your Social Security.
...I can’t believe this number but I read it over – who is the man that told
 me the number – over 6 million people – I can’t believe it – are aged 1
12 and over are getting Social Security...But I heard it. I read it. A tremendou
s – like 6 million people are getting Social Security. They’re dead. Meaning
 somebody else is picking up...
...The press is going to have to check it because what do I know? But can you im
agine, we have 6 million – now, we know there’s not 6 million, there may be 
one. But there’s not 6 million.
Anybody in this room 112 or over? Because if they are, I want to shake your hand
.
But – so 6 million over 112 years old picking up Social Security and that’s 
the beginning. So there’s tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse.
What we’re going to do is we’re going to save Medicare. We’re going to sav
e Social Security. We’re not going to raise the age or we’re not going to do
 all the things that everyone else is talking about doing. They’re all talking
 about doing it, and you don’t have to. We’re going to bring our jobs back. 
We’re going to make our economy incredible again.
My tax proposal, which is in, and a great detail in terms of policy and it’s g
otten tremendous reviews from a lot of people, a lot of great groups.
But we are going to cut taxes tremendously for the middle class and for business
es because our middle class is being decimated.
And when that happens, you’re going to see an economy that takes off. We’re 
going to get rid of a lot of that debt, if not all of it. But we’re going to g
et rid of it – you know, we’re at $19 trillion going t $21 trillion right.
You know, if you go back eight or nine years, trillion wasn’t even a word anyb
ody knew and now it’s like routine.
So we are going to save your Social Security without cuts. We’re going to brin
g the economy back. We’re going to make ourselves rich again.
A woman said to me in New Hampshire recently, she said, "Mr. Trump, I’m voting
 for you. I love you. But it’s very crude when you say you’re going to make 
our country rich again." I said, "I know it’s crude. It sounds bad. But many t
hings I say are crude. It sounds bad. But we can’t make our country great agai
n unless we make our country rich again. We can’t let everybody in the world r
ip us off.


...We just did a big interview with CNN just before this. And you know, Hillary 
– was Hillary missing today? What happened? She was two hours late. No, did yo
u hear?
Now, I may be wrong. If I’m one minute off, they’ll call me because they lov
e Hillary. They love her. You know why. I don’t know why. Why? I’m trying to
 figure it. No, I heard she was a couple of hours late. Everybody left. You know
 what happened? She was sleeping. I’m telling you. She couldn’t get out of b
ed. She was sleeping. She was sleeping. Was right.
...




Remember, we built China. The money they took out of country, we rebuilt China. 
You go there, they have bridges all over the – they have bridges like the Geor
ge Washington Bridge. Maybe I shouldn’t mention that particular bridge. But li
ke bigger like the George Washington Bridge. Only a few people got that one; tha
t’s okay.
But they have bridges going up. We have rebuilt China. They’ve taken our jobs.
 They’ve taken our base. They’ve taken our manufacturing all over the place.
 They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our money. Not going to happen anymo
re folks. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen.
I know the great business people. We have the greatest business people in the wo
rld. Guys like Carl Icahn. He calls me, "Donald, I want to help. I want to help.
" The smartest people call. We’re not going to use the special interest guy 
 a donor.
We use donors to negotiate with China because he gave some guy like, you know, w
hoever it might be. Because again, I’m the only one that’s self-funding my c
ampaign. Everybody else isn’t.
These guys – when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they 
own those politicians. They will do whatever the hell the special interests and 
the donors want.
That’s not going to happen with me.
So, Social Security – we’re saving it. Medicare – we’re saving it. We’
re going to make our country rich. Okay? Thank you, sweetheart.


...Yeah, it’s called the statute of limitations, right? And you know it’s a 
six-year year statute. Maybe five but it’s probably six. But it’s a six-year
 statute. Yeah, you have to look at it.
Look, Hillary Clinton – you know this story. It’s a crime. She committed a c
rime.
Now, perhaps – perhaps – somebody, you know, we have to have a fair Justice 
Department and perhaps...we’ll have some really good Attorney General that’s
 going to say "Well, you know".
Look, we want to be fair to everybody. Okay? Including Hillary Clinton. But she 
committed a crime in my opinion.
Now, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. She’s being protected absolutely. I ha
ve little doubt that they’re going to find anything. But they’ve already fou
nd it.
I mean, you watch television. You have all these big scholars, these lawyers, "Y
es, she violated section so and so". Just one after another. I mean, actually vi
olated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. Many laws.
You mentioned General Petraeus. His life was destroyed over 5% of what Hillary C
linton did. Over nothing.
So I think she’s going to be their nominee definitely. The only question is wh
ether or not she’ll be allowed to run. She’s being protected by the Democrat
s. She’s being protected by the President. And that’s why – why do you thi
nk she’s going along with these insane policies of his? Okay? I mean, she goes
 along with everything.
I don’t even – honestly in all fairness to her, I don’t think she believes
 it. But I think she’s afraid he’s going to say, "Listen, I don’t like her
 anymore. Go take care of her. I’m going to get somebody else." I’m telling 
you.
So, the question is statute of limitations. It’s a five year statute of limita
tions. She’s got a problem. She’s got a problem. In one way, she’s running
 for her life because I know one thing, if she wins that’s the end of that. Ri
ght? But if she loses she could have a very serious problem.
...


...Well, I said right at the beginning. We’re going to build a wall that’s g
oing to be a real wall. That’s going to be a real wall.
It’s not going to be – you see that ceiling? That ceiling is nothing compare
d to the wall. And we can build it and we can build it right. And it will be str
ong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. It’s got to be b
eautiful because someday they’re going to name it the Trump Wall. I know that.
 It’s going to happen. Going to happen.
And it’s going to work. And walls do work.
You know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. You know they couldn’
t get environmental impact statements. That’s just shows you.
China is building in the South China Sea massive military bases. Right? Why? The
y’re not supposed to. They have no respect for Obama or our country. They’re
 not supposed to be doing that. And you could get them to stop just by saying "W
e’re not doing business with you anymore." Their whole economy would – you d
on’t have to go to war. It’s economics. The whole country would collapse in 
two seconds. Believe me. We have such power and we don’t know it.
But they’re building massive – now, they had little islands. They put the bi
ggest escavators, not Caterpillars. I think they’re using Komatsu from Japan..
.They have these massive escavators, and I said to a friend of mine who’s Chin
ese from China – very rich guy, very successful guy, paid me a fortune for an 
apartment so I happen to like him, okay? – I said jokingly "How long did it ta
ke them to do these massive islands they’re building right out of the sea? Boo
m, those shovels go in, take out everything. How long did it take you to get the
 environmental impact statements?" He laughed. He said, "What are you kidding me
? Nothing." They say "We will build there." About two seconds later, you have es
cavators digging.
So we had a problem with environmental – look, I’ve won many environmental a
wards. I’m a big believer especially in clean air and clean water. I’m a big
 believer. Just so you know. Big. And I’ve gotten so many awards for the envir
onment. So I understand the environment; I’ve won many, many awards.
But when you look at how we’re impinged and hurt. But the wall was stopped bec
ause they couldn’t get an environmental impact statement among other things. T
hey couldn’t get an environmental impact statement.
Now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. You were ru
ining the habitat of a rattlesnake. I don’t know. But they actually had people
 – a lot of people – people that now would be against it but they wanted to 
build a wall and years ago they couldn’t get it done.
...You know, I said bomb the oil, right? I’ve been saying that for three years
. Now finally they started – after Paris they started bombing the oil. I’ve 
been saying it for years.
You know one of the reasons we didn’t bomb the oil? Obama didn’t want to hur
t the environment. Now, I heard that and I thought somebody was kidding. I thoug
ht a comedian was saying it. It turned out to be true. He didn’t want the flam
es and everything going into the atmosphere. This is the way we fight today.
I’m telling you, folks, we’re being led by stupid people. We’re being led 
by stupid people.
I’ve been saying not really bomb – I’ve been saying take the oil. I didn
t want to go into Iraq. But once we were there, I said "Look, we shouldn’t ha
ve been there. But then when we left, we left the wrong way."
First of all, we have a president who told them a date. "We’re going to leave 
on such and such a date." What was it like 18 months later? So the enemy all of 
sudden said, "Wow", ‘cause don’t believe it. They don’t want to be killed.
 Okay? They don’t want to be killed. So the enemy said "They’re going to lea
ve on a certain date?" So they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what
 happened. It’s a disaster and Iran is taking over Iraq.
So anyway, I couldn’t believe it when they said that. When we said to our 50 s
oldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces "We are sending 50
 soldiers."
Okay, first of all, he thinks it’s a good press announcement. It’s not. 50 s
oldiers – that’s not a lot even though they’re the elite. But those 50 sol
diers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. They have a tar
get on their heart.
Why does he have to say that for? Why can’t he let 50 soldiers go there quietl
y, stealth, stealth? Why can’t he just do that? Why can’t he do that?
Those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably d
on’t even know that but everybody is looking for them and that’s the way it 
is.
We have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
We used to have General MacArthur – Douglas MacArthur – General George Patto
n. I mean, these were real people. These were real people.
Today, we have generals that go on talk shows...I saw a general the other day on
 a talk show. He said – and this was serious and he’s a good man. They’re 
good men. But you’ve got to lead these men. Even the generals have to have som
e power over them. He said, "We are in the worst shape in terms of preparedness 
that we’ve been in in decades." And this is the time when we have to be in the
 best shape because the world wants to kill us.
And he said we are in the worst shape we’ve been in many, many decades.
Now, number one, he shouldn’t be saying that because you’re telling the enem
y that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. Right? We shouldn’t b
e saying it. We shouldn’t be saying it.
I mean, even if it’s true, you don’t say it. You get it fixed and you do the
 opposite.
One thing I’m going to do I’ll tell you, I’m going to build our military s
o big and so strong and so powerful – so powerful that nobody is going to mess
 with us. Nobody is going to mess with us.
You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing you can do. Everyone is toying 
with us right now. It’s the cheapest thing you can do. The absolute cheapest t
hing you can do.


...I’m a big Second Amendment person by the way.
...My sons are really great marksmen. They’re big believers. And I’m a membe
r of the NRA but I’m not such a good shot. But they’re great shots so it’s
 one of those things.
But if you think about that question. So you know there’s tremendous pressure 
to get rid of the guns, get rid of the magazines, no bullets. How about the one 
where they have three bullets in every magazine? ...So the people will put three
 bullets in. I don’t think the bad guys are going to say, "Well, I don’t wan
t to break the law. I’m going to go kill people today but I’m going to put t
hree bullets in." Right?
These people – and you know I have arguments with them all the time and I’m 
a practical guy. Honestly, if I didn’t believe this, I couldn’t say it.
So in France or in California, I have a permission to carry, which is a big thin
g in New York. It’s very hard to get. I have a license to carry.
But in France or in California or in all these places where we see the shooters,
 right, if instead of having like in France hundreds of people in that room – 
Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws i
n the world. Nobody has guns. Except the bad guys.
So they walk in with the worst, the toughest, the best weaponry you could have a
nd they said, "Over here – boom. Over here – boom." So they killed 128 but m
any more are dying right now. They’re in terrible shape in the hospitals. They
 just wipe the place out and they could’ve stayed there for longer. They wiped
 it out.
Then you had those two sleaze bags from California. The married couple. I saw th
e press – "The young married couple that did the shooting". They’re not a yo
ung married couple. They’re the worst. They’re sleaze.
...They say "The young married couple". That’s no young married couple.
So they walk into a place and they killed 14 people and others are going to be d
ying probably because of a lot of other wounded people.
But if somebody had guns in there – nobody had a gun...How would you have done
 if you had a gun? Would you have been firing back a little bit? They’d been i
n trouble. Right? They would have been in trouble. Believe me. That guy.
So, you know, I went to like an Ivy League college and I have a lot of friends t
hat are against guns and I argue with them. I talk to them. I said, "Okay, we’
re in Paris. You have all these places and there’s hundreds of people. Guys wa
lk in with guns and you have no gun. Don’t you think they would’ve been bett
er if they had?" They can’t – they lose the argument but they never change t
heir mind.
So we have to fight for the Second Amendment. It’s so simple. It’s so simple
.
And believe me, believe me, they want to take those guns away and you always kno
w that the bad ones are going to have the guns and they’re going to have them 
more so than ever before. So we’re going to protect the Second Amendment if I
m president. That I can tell you.
And by the way, we’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. Do you ever no
tice?
...And by the way, Merry Christmas everybody. Merry Christmas. And happy holiday
.
Frankly, I have a lot of friends that aren’t Christian. They like Christmas. E
verybody likes Christmas. It’s politically incorrect to say Merry Christmas. B
ut when I’m president, Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays, enjoy yourselves, don
t eat too much turkey. Right?
Okay, so we’re going to say Merry Christmas again folks. We’re going to brin
g that spirit back.


...I really do. I like Ted Cruz a lot. And he’s doing well. I’m doing well. 
I mean, it’s not a contest between the two of us, just so we understand. We ha
ve to make that – but I do like him.
And I would say that we would certainly have things in mind for Ted, to be hones
t with you.
I mean, he’s somebody that I can certainly see that because I like him, he lik
es me. He actually put out a tweet tonight. He said "Donald Trump is" – I thin
k he used the word – "terrific". That’s a nice word. I mean, whoever hears t
hat?
I can tell you other candidates are not exactly saying that about me. Right?
...


...So the Super PACs are horrible and I had many set up for me by people I didn
t know. I mean, I’d see them on television talking about – somebody named 
one "The Art of the Deal PAC". Two young guys. They look good. I mean, I don’t
 know.
But then I got to be, you know, started going around and I see the corruption wi
th these Super PACs, with the stuff towards money. People that put the money in 
are dealing with the candidates. The whole thing is wrong.
And I see it. I mean, Bush has $125 million. Think of it. $125 million. By the w
ay, if he had $2 billion it wouldn’t make any difference. Okay?
But Bush has $125 million. And honestly, he’s a nice person. He is. I don’t 
want to do that but he’s a very nice person. But it’s $125 million. And you
d say to yourself, "People give $2 million, $5 million, $7 million. You know w
hat’s happening."
But some of the Super PACs are running campaigns. They’re actually running the
 campaign.
Another thing and it’s sort of interesting, one of the Super PACs I believe ha
s $6 million. Of the $6 million – this was reported on the front page of the L
os Angeles Times – one of the candidates who’s a nice person so I’m not go
ing to mention the name. You know, when I like people I like them. I’m a very 
loyal person.
Of the $6 million after all of the bloodsuckers took their cuts, the fundraisers
 – can you believe this? – they had $140,000 left for the campaign. That’s
 better than being a real estate broker. I’d rather do that than sell houses. 
$140,000 left. That was in the newspaper. I don’t know. I think I believe it.
But I’ve seen it. I saw it with the Romney campaign. Guys made tens of million
s of dollars raising money for Romney. I said what the hell is this? I mean, you
 give money and they get a cut.
Look, our laws are so corrupt. Our campaign finance laws are so totally corrupt.
 It’s so horrible. So horrible.
And I don’t necessarily want to stop people from giving because I think that
s a good thing but you have to get away from these PACs.
What you have to have is people have to know who it is. So you have to open up t
he process. Let people know. If somebody wants to give $1 million, you give $1 m
illion but everybody has to know that so and so gave $1 million because that put
s a little pressure on guys like Brad who raises hundreds of millions. Puts a li
ttle pressure.
But the concept of the PAC is no good. It’s no good. It’s a very dangerous, 
terrible thing. So we will change our laws because you really have no choice. It
’s so out of control. It’s so terrible.
But the papers that are in this room tonight, they should look at this. There’
s so little money left over for the candidates, it’s one of the reasons why I
m so happy I’m doing my own.
We actually sent legal letters to either nine or 11 PACs. The Trump PAC, the Tru
mp PAC, the this PAC. First of all, I’m sure that out of some of them they sto
le the money. Some guy has no money. He sets up a Trump something PAC. Nothing t
o do with me. Sets it up. All of a sudden he’s got $2 million sitting there. R
ight? People send in money. And that guy has no money. How much of that money do
 you think he’s going to use to do what he’s supposed to be doing? That’s 
common sense. So maybe all of it but I doubt it.
So we sent legal notices to every one that we could find. We don’t want their 
money. We said "Don’t do it. We don’t want it. And we want ideally to give t
he money back to the people that gave it to you."
But the Super PAC concept is corrupt. It’s terrible and it should be ended. An
d we’re going to go to new campaign finance laws that are going to be terrific
. Okay? Thank you.


...Well, look he’s [referring to Cruz] from Texas. To the best of my knowledge
, there’s a lot of oil in Texas. Right? So you know, he gets a lot of money fr
om the oil companies and he’s totally against ethanol and everything else you
re talking about.
And I’m not. I’m totally in favor.
And you know, it’s a big industry here. It’s a big industry.
You know, if that industry is upset, Iowa’s got problems.
I was amazed. I was here three weeks ago with the group...They were such amazing
 people...And I learned so much about it. I was in favor of it even before...
...Beyond even the fuel capacities, which we want to create as much as we can, t
remendous numbers of jobs in Iowa. And I said to myself, if Ted Cruz is against 
ethanol, how does he win in Iowa? Because that’s very anti-Iowa. I don’t kno
w how he wins in Iowa. I don’t know.
No, but I’m totally for it. Okay? Thank you.


...I was a member of the establishment six months ago. I gave $350,000 to the RG
A. That’s the Republican Governors Association. I gave tremendous amounts of m
oney away. I was like the fair haired boy.
Once I said I’m running, they said "What? You’re not supposed to run."
And then what happened – I ran against all these Senators and Governors. And e
veryone said "Well, I don’t know." My wife said "If you run, you’re going to
 win" because she understands that I like people – I love people and people lo
ve me. And she said "You will run but you actually have to go and run. You have 
to announce you’re running because nobody’s going to believe you’re runnin
g."
And so I didn’t want to announce because I didn’t want to like announce and 
things didn’t work out and I’m like some of these guys where they’re zero.
 Many of them zero.
And so finally I said, "Look, let’s – we’re going to do it. We have to do 
it."
Just too many things that I watch on television with our president and the decis
ions that are made – Bergdahl – where we get Bergdahl and they get five kill
ers. We get this horrible, dirty rotten spy – horrible traitor. We get this ho
rrible, terrible traitor and they get five killers that they’ve wanted for nin
e years – the worst killers – and they’re all back on the battlefield.
You know, so many decisions. The Iran deal. The Iran deal. How bad is that? They
 self-inspect. "Okay, good. We’re not building. We promise we’re not buildin
g nuclear weapons." "Oh, okay. That’s okay."
And we give them $150 billion and we don’t even get our prisoners back. The wh
ole thing is crazy. So I saw this. And I said to my wife, "Hey, I don’t know i
f I’ll do well or not. Who the hell knows?"
And it’s a risky thing. And I’ve always heard if you’re a very successful 
person you can’t run for office, especially for president, and I see it all th
e time. And the people go after me. I don’t even care at this point. I said, "
I have to do it. Now, we’re going to have to do it."
And I look at it last time with Romney and I didn’t do it and I probably shoul
d have because he let us down. I mean, look, he let us down.
That was an election – we had a failed president. Four years ago he was a fail
ed president, just as bad as he is now. It’s true. And Romney let us down. Tha
t last month – it was like he wasn’t even campaigning.
I said, "Why aren’t you on Jay Leno? Why aren’t you on David Letterman? Why 
aren’t you doing it?" And he just didn’t do it. So he lost the election.
So I backed McCain, he lost. I backed Romney, he lost. This time I said I’m do
ing it myself, okay? We’re going to win. We’re going to win.
But there is an establishment out there. It’s a real establishment. Real peopl
e. And they’re people that are used to having their little puppets all over th
e place. And they’re people that are used to giving donations and having contr
ol.
And they’re people that, you know, look when they call me I’ll treat them wi
th respect but I’m not going to be doing bad things if it’s bad for the coun
try. I’m not going to let Ford build a plant in Mexico if I can keep it in Mic
higan.
And I’m not going to let the car companies and Nabisco and all these people an
d all these companies – I’m all for free trade. I think it’s great. I’m 
for it. But it’s got to be smart trade. I’m not going to let them move to Me
xico and then sell stuff over the border with no tax, no nothing so we lose our 
jobs, we lose our factories, they go over here, they make it, we let them come t
hrough. How does that help us, folks? I went to the best business school in the 
world. Believe me, it doesn’t help us. Okay? Trust me.
And we’re not going to make deals like that anymore. We can’t. We owe $19 tr
illion. We can’t.
So the establishment is not ever probably – look, you know what? In the end, i
f this country starts humming even the establishment they’ll be saying "Okay, 
it’s a good thing" because they’ll be beneficiaries also.
But we do have a real establishment and they’ve never seen this happen before.
A writer called up and he said recently – I told this story. I mean, one of th
e top journalists to my way of thinking certainly in the country and beyond. And
 he said, "Mr. Trump, how does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" "How does
 it feel? What you’ve done has never, ever been done before?" I said, "What ha
ve I done?" "You’ve dominated the Summer of Trump." Now they call it the Autum
n of Trump.
Hopefully, they’re going to call it the Spring of Trump and I want the next Au
tumn of Trump.
But I said to the writer, "I don’t know what you’re talking about. I haven
t done anything ‘cause frankly if I don’t win I consider this to be a total
 waste of time." I’ll be honest with you. As much as I like being with you ton
ight. Because we won’t be able to do anything.
He said, "No, no. You’ve won even if you don’t win. You’ve won already." I
 said, "No, you’re wrong. If I don’t win, I have wasted my time."
So you know, the point is that the establishment can’t believe it because they
’ve never seen it happen before.
...I was on the cover of Time Magazine four or five weeks ago and Time Magazine 
was going to pick the Person of the Year. Everybody – even my enemies – said
 "Trump is going to win." I said, "I won’t win." They said, "Why?" "I won’t 
win. Just like I should have gotten the Emmy for The Apprentice for the first th
ree years. I was nominated. I should have." And I said, "I’ll never win." I to
ld everybody I’ll never win because I’m not Hollywood establishment.
And with Time Magazine, I said – Bill O’Reilly, who’s a great guy, did an 
editorial at the end of his show two days ago saying nobody has done more than T
rump, he should have won.
Now, I’m not saying I should have – yeah, I probably should have in all fair
ness – but he said "Nobody’s done more" – you know, taking over – what w
e’ve done has been amazing – all of us together not just me. It’s all of u
s. It’s all of us. From Dallas and Mobile and Oklahoma. All of us. Because the
 spirit.
...Well, Merkel got it. Now, Merkel, what did she do? She’s destroyed – I me
an, she’s in the process of destroying Germany with the migration.
We have to help the people with the migration. We have to create a safe zone som
e place in Syria. But I don’t want them coming into this country. I don’t wa
nt them because we don’t know who they are. We don’t know who they are. Them
 with their printing press that now do the forged passports. Okay? You heard abo
ut that. So we don’t know.
The bottom line on that – it’s such an interesting question. You’ll know i
n about a month or two whether or not the establishment has treated me fairly.
But the only thing I can say is this: If I win Iowa, I think it’s over. I said
 before. Because I think if I win Iowa, New Hampshire is amazing. People are ama
zing. You would love the people. They would love you. You’d love everybody. Th
e whole country is in love...I call it the noisy majority. It’s no longer a si
lent majority. It’s the noisy majority.
But if we win like I think we’re going to win because we have such a big leagu
e, honestly, it’s not going to matter. They can’t do anything. I don’t car
e about the establishment. They can’t do anything.
You know, the only way they can do is if I’m a little bit short, if I’m two 
votes short I have a problem because I’ll have to go into that convention, I
m dealing with all these blood sucker politicians and they’ll make their deal
s and they’ll have all their money guys around and they’ll be in the backroo
m making deals.
But if I get the number of delegates, there’s not a thing they can do. And I
ll end up doing fine with the establishment...


...I’m such a believer in education.
You know, I had an uncle who was a professor at MIT who was a brilliant guy...In
 fact, I just retweeted an article about him today. You’ve got to read it. Oka
y? @RealDonaldTrump. You have to read it.
When I see somebody like Jeb – no I’ll tell you one thing I respect. He didn
’t change his views. He knew he was getting killed on this issue and he didn
t change. And I respect that to a certain extent. But it’s so wrong.
Common Core is a total disaster. We have people – bureaucrats in Washington 
 telling you how your child should be educated in Iowa and New Hampshire and al
l of the different places that we go to. It’s ridiculous.
And I go around and I’ve seen the principals. I’ve seen so many students and
 teachers and professors and principals, and I’ve seen some of the people and 
the love – even in Iowa at a school – I’ve seen some of the love these par
ents give to those schools. This is real love. These are smart people. And these
 are people that aren’t working for a paycheck. These are incredible people...
Remember this: Our educational system is a mess. We spend more money per pupil a
s a government than any other country in the world and we’re in 28th place. An
d I mean like double what anybody else pays.
So I want to bring education back to the local areas. You’re going to have par
ents and you’re going to have unbelievably talented people and they love their
 kids and they want their kids to be well-educated because it’s so important. 
And you’re going to be very happy with it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you.


...You people do it. We’re backing you 100%...We are backing you 100%. You’r
e doing a phenomenal job. There should be more people like you in this country.
You know, the whole grid is a disaster. Right? The whole country. The infrastruc
ture of our country is falling apart.
And nobody can build like me. It’s what I do. I build. I build.
I’m building on – as you know – Pennsylvania Avenue a big tremendous hotel
 that I got from the government of the United States. Can you believe it? During
 the Obama administration a couple of years ago.
But we had the best plan. The GSA is terrific. They’re very good. Actually, th
ey’re very talented people.
We’re under-budget and ahead of schedule. That’s what we do.
When you see these things where they’re building a bridge and it’s going to 
cost, you know, $1 billion and it costs $12 billion. How about when they build a
 hospital and it costs $3 billion?
And I look at it – I’m very good – I can look at a building and tell you h
ow much it’s going to cost.
I say "$250 million." "No, sir, $3 billion." $3 billion? Think somebody got rich
 on that one?
So we’re going to stop all this stuff. We’re going to make our country so st
rong and so wonderful. And we all love it anyways. We love it.
But it’s so sad to see what’s happening. It’s so sad. And we’re going to
 change it around.


...We have such a problem. And the biggest problem I have, you know, it relates 
to education and the hardest thing you get is when you go around and you’d see
 students and so many students come out to hear us and they always want to talk 
about the loans – they have student loans – and they’re going through nice
 colleges, they’re good students, they work hard, they could be really top in 
their class and they get out and they say, "Mr. Trump, we have no jobs. We can
t get jobs."
So they’re borrowed up to the hilt and they can’t get jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from China. We’re going to bring our jobs
 back from all these places overseas that have stolen our jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from South America. We’re bringing them b
ack from Mexico. We’re going to have jobs again. Believe me. We’re going to 
be manufacturers again.
We’re going to start making Apple computers in this country. What the hell goo
d does it do to make them in China? I want to make them in this country and we h
ave the ability to do it.
So, we’re going to bring our jobs back. Okay?


Wow! Thank you very much.
Hello.
I’d like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico,
 New Jersey, and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numb
ers coming in. Very big numbers.
I’m truly honored by your support.
Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you kn
ow what that is. We’re only getting started and it’s going to be beautiful. 
Remember that.
Tonight, we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign rece
ived more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history. No matter who it is, n
o matter who they are, we received more votes.
This is a great feeling. That’s a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed 
real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible.
You’ve given me the honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall.
We’re going to do it. We’re going to do it, folks. We’re going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever le
t you down. Too much work, too many people, blood, sweat, and tears. I’m never
 going to let you down.
I will make you proud of your party and our movement, and that’s what it is 
 it’s a movement.
Now, recent polls have shown that I’m beating Hillary Clinton and with all of 
her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that she’s made and she has made
 tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantia
lly.
To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I wa
nt to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn yo
ur support and I will work very hard to earn that support.
To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a ri
gged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms.


And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against 
 and he’s right on that – will be taken care of far better than anyone eve
r thought possible. And that’s what I do.
We are going to have fantastic trade deals. We’re going to start making money 
and bringing in jobs.
Now, I know some people say I’m too much of a fighter. My preference is always
 peace, however. And I’ve shown that. I’ve shown that for a long time.
I’ve built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit a
ll parties involved – always.
My goal is always again to bring people together. But I’m forced to fight for 
something I really care about, I will never, ever back down and our country will
 never, ever back down.
I’ve fought for my family. I’ve fought for my business. I’ve fought for my
 employees. And now I’m going to fight for you – the American people – lik
e nobody has ever fought before.
And I’m not a politician fighting. I’m me. You’re going to see some real g
ood things happen.
Just remember this: I’m going to be your champion. I’m going to be America
s champion.
Because, you see, this election isn’t about Republican or Democrat. It’s abo
ut who runs this country – the special interests or the people – and I mean 
the American people.
Every election year politicians promised change. Obama promised change and it di
dn’t work out too well. And every year, they failed to deliver.
Why would politicians want to change a system that’s totally rigged in order t
o keep them in power? That’s what they’re doing, folks.
Why would politicians want to change a system that’s made them and their frien
ds very, very wealthy?
I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support – the only way you
 could have done it – landslides all over the country with every demographic, 
on track to win 37 primary/caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very t
alented people.


After years of disappointment, there’s one thing we all have learned – we ca
n’t fix the rigged system by relying on very – and I mean this so, so strong
ly – on the very people who rigged it. And they rigged it and do not ever thin
k anything differently.
We can’t solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our pro
blems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form fo
r themselves.
They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, s
elling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars.
Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. 
Something that how she’s getting away with this folks nobody understands. Desi
gned to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security
 of the entire country at risk, and a president in a corrupt system is totally p
rotecting her. Not right.
I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week, and we’re g
oing to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons.
 I think you’re going to find it very informative and very, very interesting.
I wonder if the press would want to attend. Who knows?
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into a private hedge fund. The Russi
ans, the Saudis, the Chinese all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorabl
e treatment in return.
It’s a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more
 influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didn’t need to do this. It’s not easy. Believe me. I didn’t need to do i
t. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country, which has been so goo
d to me and to my family.


I’ve traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in people’s lives
.
I’ve visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, I
ndiana, and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs – they literally these jobs have vir
tually disappeared. An embarrassment to our country and it’s horrible.
I’ve embraced the victims of illegal immigration – moms and dads who have ha
d to bury their own children because of people that shouldn’t have been in the
 country. Remember it, folks. Remember it.
I’ve visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools.
I’ve seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges, and I’ve compared the
m to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours. It’s rea
lly not to be believed. Hard to imagine what’s happened to our country.
America is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly a
uctioned off to the highest bidder.
We’re broke. We’re broke. We owe $19 trillion. Going quickly to $21 trillion
.
Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crime is rising. Peop
le are scared.
The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of 
the Obama disaster.
What a crowd. What a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country. We lov
e our country.
But we can turn this all around. We’re going to do it by putting America first
.
That commitment is the foundation for change that’s been missing and it’s be
en missing for a long time.


It’s important to understand what America First means.
It means on foreign policy, we will never enter into any conflict unless it make
s us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation.
This is the opposite of Hillary’s foreign policy, which invaded Libya, destabi
lized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass migra
tion, which is wrecking havoc all over the world and while putting Iran on the p
ath to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East. And 
they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks, we have made them that 
way.
Better hope I’m president.
On trade, America First means the American worker will have his or her job prote
cted from unfair foreign competition – what’s happening here is absolutely a
 disgrace.
No PPP [sic]. You’re right about that. So and you mean no PP.
We are going – and remember this – we are only going to have great trade dea
ls. Okay? We are only going to have that.
We’re not going to approve as somebody just said the Trans-Pacific Partnership
, which is a disaster – a disaster – for our country. Almost as bad as NAFTA
 signed by Bill Clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories an
d our manufacturing and moved them to other places and in particular Mexico.
If it’s not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. It’s got to b
e great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believ
e me we are all suffering and we’re suffering big league and it’s getting wo
rse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up America’s great potential to 
bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers, including our wonderful and hard
working miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this administratio
n.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that 
keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for midd
le class Americans and businesses. Likewise, regulation which is strangling our 
economy which would be brought down from its present insane level, we will make 
it very, very good for our companies, for our small businesses, and for people t
hat want to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages, and secur
ity of American workers. Whether first or tenth generation, no matter who you ar
e, we’re going to protect your job because let me tell you, our jobs are being
 stripped from our country like we’re babies.


The beauty of America First is that it brings us all together. Every American wo
rker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and right
s and privileges. It’s got to be that way.
Now, the people in charge say things can’t change. I’m here today to tell yo
u that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to make our own product
s. We’re going to put America back to work.
We’re going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so s
ad, going to take care of our African-American people that have been mistreated 
for so long.
We’re going to make you and your families safe, secure, and prosperous. Prospe
rous again.
Together, we will put the American people first again. First again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We wil
l make our country strong again.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America great again! Remember. Thank you!
Thank you! Thank you very much everybody!


Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. This has been a great period of time.
 It’s been really amazing.
We’ve gotten the nomination. We’re going to have an incredible period in Cle
veland. We look forward to it.
We’ve started working already on the convention.
And LeBron, good luck in the series because we’re going to have the series, wh
ich of course the longer it goes the less time we have but that’s okay. And it
’s going to be very interesting to see what happens.
But as you know, they’re playing the basketball championships partially in tha
t arena so I think it will be very exciting. It’ll add to the excitement in Cl
eveland and that’s good. That’s what we want because it’s going to be an e
xciting period of time.
We have – we’ve done some awfully good work. I was just informed...that we
ve got more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican primaries and w
e still have I guess six or seven locations to go, states to go.
And in the history, think of it, in the history of this great party, we’ve got
ten substantially more votes than anybody else by millions – by many millions 
more – than anybody who’s ever run.
So that’s a great. You know, when you think Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reaga
n and everybody, we have the most votes by far. So that’s something to me that
’s very exciting.
And overall, it’s just been a very exciting process. I think we’re going to 
do very well.
We have no idea what’s going to happen on the Democrat’s side but they’re 
certainly having difficulty. I don’t like to see people having difficulty. But
 if anybody has to have it, let it be them.
And I think it’s going to be very interesting.
I’m very proud to say that we’ve gotten the most votes and also if you look 
at the overall primary the amount of votes cast, that’s also a record. So we
ve broken a lot of records in terms of the voters.
Our polling has come out and the polls are doing very well as you know. We’re 
pretty much even and in some cases ahead of Hillary. And I think we’re going t
o have a very, very successful number of months. And I think it will all culmina
te in November and we’re going to make America great. Okay?
So that’s the way it is...






I’m glad you asked the question because I have to tell you I have raised a tre
mendous amount of money for the vets – almost $6 million. And more money is go
ing to come in I believe over the next little while too.
But I’ve raised almost $6 million. All of the money has been paid out and I’
m going to give it to you in just a second.
In fact, I brought a list just in case that question was asked.
But the money has been paid out.
I have been thanked by so many veterans’ groups throughout the United States.
One gentleman called me up recently crying that out of a blue he got a check for
 $100,000. I have been thanked by so many groups – great veterans’ groups.
And by the way, outside you have a few people picketing. They’re sent there by
 Hillary Clinton and they’re picketing that the money wasn’t sent. The money
 has all been sent.
I wanted to keep it private. If we could, I wanted to keep it private because I 
don’t think it’s anybody’s business if I want to send money to the vets.
But I have to say this. I raised close to $6 million. It’ll probably be over t
hat amount when it’s all said and done. But as of this moment, it’s $5.6 mil
lion.
When this started, it started with a speech in Iowa when I said let’s raise so
me money for the vets and it went up from $1 million to $2 million to $3 million
. And it now ends up to be almost $6 million and again I think we can even do be
tter than that.




But I will say that the press should be ashamed of themselves.
And behalf of the vets, the press should be ashamed of themselves. They are call
ing me. They are furious because I sent people checks of a lot of money.
We’re going to give you the names right now, which is what you want.
And instead of being like "Thank you very much, Mr. Trump" or "Trump did a good 
job", everyone said, "Who got it? Who got it? Who got it?" And you make me look 
very bad.
I have never received such bad publicity for doing such a good job.
So I will give the names because that’s what you want. Right?
Okay. Are you ready?
I brought them here. It takes – because you have to vet each company. You know
, much of this money was paid out fairly early.
But you have to vet all of these different groups because these are many differe
nt groups. You have to go through a process. When you send checks for hundreds o
f thousands of dollars to people and to companies and to groups that you’ve ne
ver heard of – charitable organizations. You have to vet it. You send people o
ut. You do a lot of work.
Now, most of the money went out quite a while ago. Some of it went out more rece
ntly. But all of this has gone out and I’ll give you the names.
Are you ready? Do you have your pad?
And again, I really think the press – look, the media, you know my opinion of 
the media. It’s very low. I think the media is frankly made up of people that,
 in many cases, not in all cases, are not good people. But I think this is an ex
ample.
And I just on behalf of all of the folks that have worked hard on this and all o
f the people that have made contributions, including myself; I gave $1 million, 
but I just want to tell you that there are so many people that are so thankful f
or what we did.
One other thing that’s important to know. Zero dollars have been taken out for
 administration.
You know, when you go to a lot of these different groups, in this case, zero dol
lars have been taken out for administration. So a lot of these companies that ma
ke a lot of money doing the administration stuff. So no money – it costs zero 
dollars to accumulate all of this money. Okay?
So you have 22 Kill and that’s $200,000.
And you can call these people. That was another thing. A lot of the money when i
t was sent out, different people would call. I could tell you, I’m not going t
o mention anybody specifically, but there were a couple of people that were real
ly disgusting. They’d call and these vet groups they don’t get a lot of call
s from the press. And maybe some of them would keep quiet or they didn’t know 
or they didn’t want to talk to the press or they didn’t feel comfortable.
So if they didn’t say they got the money, which they all did, 100% got the mon
ey. All certified checks. If anyone wants to see the certified checks.
But rather than say why don’t you – could I see a certified check? They said
 "Well, they didn’t say they got the money." They all got the money.
But they’re not people that always talk to the press. Many of them do talk to 
the press. Many of them have – I guess you found $2 million or $2.5 million wh
ere they talked.
Well, the number is $5.6 million and it’s going to possibly go above that beca
use I believe some other people are coming in.
Ready?
22Kill got $200,000.
Now, these are checks that have been delivered, that have been cashed, that are 
now being used to help the vets.
Achilles International – great organization – $200,000. Much of this money w
as paid a long time ago.
American Hero Adventures – $100,000.
Americans for Equal Living – $100,000.
America’s Vetdogs – The Veterans’ K-9 Corps Inc. – $75,000.
AMVETS – $75,000.


Just so you understand. When I didn’t do the Fox debate...because I didn’t t
hink they treated me right but actually they’ve been extremely fair over the l
ast three or four months, I have to say that about Fox. But when I didn’t do t
hat one event, the debate, I gave a speech. I didn’t have to do this with the 
money for the vets but I decided to because I thought it would be a good idea.
And I had some very generous people – Carl Icahn gave $500,000. Phil Ruffin ga
ve $1 million...Ike Perlmutter gave $1 million. We raised a lot of money. And I 
didn’t have to do that. It would have been easier just to give the speech.
And the problem with the press what they do is they convince people like me not 
to do it, not to give money to different things because it’s a lot easier actu
ally that way.


And I believe we’re going to have some more coming in. Some friends of mine, s
ome more coming in. And that adds up to $5,600,000 total and we’re going to ha
ve some more coming in.
Now, every one of those checks have been passed other than the one check which i
s being held subject to they’re getting a final approval from the government. 
But every one of those has been passed.
This is my check for $1 million.
We have many letters from the different groups thanking us very much for the mon
ey and they didn’t ask – I didn’t ask people to be here today. I could hav
e asked every one of the group unlike Hillary who asks people to stand outside a
nd say "Donald Trump didn’t give the money."
Nobody gave this kind of money.
So I gave $5,600,000. More is coming in. Probably tops the $6 million number.
I never thought we were going to raise $1 million when we started. And we end up
 doing almost $6 million.
I have to tell you the press is so dishonest and so unfair.
A lot of the people behind me and some of the people over here helped in vetting
 the various requests for money. And I just want to thank all of those people.






I wasn’t too involved in picking the organizations other than to the Marine La
w Enforcement. They are fabulous people. They honored me last year at the Waldor
f Astoria. I knew them.
I was going to give it to three companies or three groups and we couldn’t vet 
them quickly. And so I gave it to the Marine.
And if you look at number, the Marine Corps Law Enforcement Foundation is a fabu
lous group and I didn’t have to go through a big vetting process with them. Be
cause I was going to split the $1 million check up amongst...and in the end I ju
st didn’t want to go through the process of having to vet all those different 
groups.






Because I wanted to make this out of the goodness of my heart. I didn’t want t
o do this where the press is all involved and all of a sudden everybody is going
 "Where did it go? Who did it go to?" Then we said who it went to, then we said 
how much was it.
...Look, when this started...I said if we could raise $1 million that would be g
ood. And we ended up raising almost $6 million. And I’m going to have more com
ing in over a period of time.






I’m totally accountable but I didn’t want to have credit for it.
Actually though what I got was worse than credit because they were questioning m
e. And this is money. And by the way, most of that money went out very early jus
t so you understand. But a lot of these groups – getting vetted by, you know, 
when you pay the money out, they need government documentation. They need a lot 
of different things.


Plus, we want to find out who’s in the good group.
I had people – teams of people – reviewing statistics, reviewing numbers and
 also talking to people in the military to find out whether or not the group was
 deserving of the money.
We have given to groups that are unbelievable groups. And honestly, I wish you c
ould hear the phone calls and see the letters. They are so happy. And I’m happ
y to do it. I didn’t want the credit for it but it was very unfair that the pr
ess treated us so badly.






Well, generally speaking, that’s 100% true.






I like scrutiny. But you know what? When I raise money – excuse me, excuse me,
 I’ve watched you on television. You’re a real beauty. When I raise money fo
r the veterans and it’s a massive amount of money – find out how much Hillar
y Clinton has given to the veterans – nothing.
And then I see a few guys standing out there. They don’t even know what they
re there for. They have no idea. They’re there because Hillary Clinton’s ca
mpaign sent them.
And actually I think it was you or one of you that found out that they actually 
were with Hillary Clinton’s campaign, which was interesting but I wasn’t sur
prised.
I don’t want the credit for it but I shouldn’t be lambasted.
And remember this: So out of the almost $6 million that was raised not one penny
 did I take for administration cost. That’s unheard of.






How else am I going to raise the money? How else am I going to raise the money?






I would have given – just so you understand. Until I was criticized – so I
m the only one in the world that could raise almost $6 million for the veterans
, have uniform applause by the veterans’ groups, and end up being criticized b
y the press.
Yes, I made a speech and during the speech I said, "Let’s raise a little money
 for the vets." It turned out to be a lot of money, not a little money. I though
t if we could get to $1 million, it would be great, which it would have been.






That’s right. I do raise millions.






No, I don’t think so.






No, I raised almost $6 million. Some of it didn’t come through. But more money
 is coming through than didn’t come through. The number probably is going to b
e – when we finish it probably going to be over the $6 million.






I don’t mind it coming from the opposition...What I do mind is when I raise al
l of these millions and when we started out nobody ever thought it was going to 
be over $5 million or close to $6 [million].






So, look, here’s the story. Here’s the story. I think and I’ve been dealin
g with the press a long time. I think the political press is among the most dish
onest people I’ve ever met, I have to tell you that. Okay?
...But I think the political press...I think the political press – I see the s
tories and I see the way they’re attached.
For instance, I went down this weekend to do Rolling Thunder. I was invited. I d
idn’t have anything to do with it. We had a tremendous gathering of people –
 thousands – I don’t know how many thousands – but many thousands of peopl
e. And I joked "Oh, I thought we were going to go from the Jefferson Memorial to
 the – " I was joking. They said "Donald Trump was disappointed". Everybody kn
ew I was being sarcastic and joking. They said some of them. Said Donald Trump w
as very disappointed that it didn’t go from Jefferson to Lincoln. You know, mi
llions of people.
I was joking. I said "Oh, I’m used to watching it. We had – " I was joking. 
So they put it down as serious. They know I was joking.
I’ll give you another example. We had a certain – same event – it was rope
d off where you could only get so many people there and there were a lot of peop
le. I don’t know – 10,000, 15,000, maybe 25,000. I don’t know there was a 
lot of people. Plus there were people breaking the seams all the way along.
Eugene Washington, a man I like actually, wrote an article said there were 5,000
 people there. There were many times that. And you weren’t allowed to have any
 more people.
And all of these people were with their motorcycles in parking lots all the way.
 They were waving to me as I’m going.


But wait a minute. The point is law enforcement – these people didn’t allow 
you to have any more people.
...I had a tremendous crowd but it was the biggest crowd you could have had. It 
was all cordoned off. You weren’t allowed to have any more. You weren’t allo
wed to have any more people than that.
So instead of saying Trump made a speech in front of a packed crowd, they said "
Trump was disappointed" because I didn’t have millions of people going from Je
fferson to Washington. I mean, give me a break.
...Honestly, it’s dishonest reporting.






Well, the veterans believe me. Let me tell you, the veterans why they believe. A
nd I have group that I gave...[invites a veteran to speak]
...I could have asked all these groups – he just showed up. I just saw him. Bu
t I could have asked all these groups to come here and they could have made – 
I didn’t want to do that.
I’m not looking for credit. But what I don’t want is when I raise millions o
f dollars have people say like this sleazy guy over here from ABC – he’s a s
leaze in my book. You’re a sleaze because you know the facts and you know the 
facts well.
Veteran:
Thank you, Mr. Trump.
First of all for the record, I’m a state representative from New Hampshire, 10
 years on the veterans affairs committee, 22 years in the Marine Corps, retired 
First Sergeant.
What I want to clarify here first of all, I would never ever in a million years 
put my name on a candidate that did not from his heart look me in the eye and te
ll me he’s concerned about veterans. That’s Donald Trump. I met him over a y
ear ago.
I’ve been involved in many fundraisers. There are many scammers out there. He 
did the right thing by vetting these groups there.
If you look at some of the groups, they’re given 20 cents, 40 cents on the dol
lar and they’re spending the rest for you know their nice lavish trips. He gav
e 100%.
The liberal media is the only ones that have been calling the foundation. All ri
ght? I’m a former chairman. I’ve been dealing with this stuff for years as a
 veterans activist.
Stop using veterans as a political pawns. You’ve got a guy outside...go do a G
oogle search on his Facebook. He’s out there. His pictures with Clinton.
They are using veterans as political pawns. It must stop.
Donald Trump is doing this with a heart. You’re all focused on the way he’s 
raising money and you’re not looking at the 22 veterans that are killing each 
other everyday. You’re not concerned about the thousands of veterans that are 
on waitlists.
Look at his plans on his Trump website. He talks about medical cards. He talks a
bout fixing the VA. He talks about competition.
I think the liberal media and I’ve been dealing with you a long time. You need
 to get your head out of your butt. Focus on the real issues.
Thank you.


What I did – I didn’t ask Al. I’ve gotten to know Al a little bit primaril
y through New Hampshire where we had great victories. But he showed up this morn
ing because he was upset.
And many of the other groups were upset. They received $100,000 in the mail. The
y didn’t even know what it was for. It was from me. Other groups received $200
,000, $250,000. They didn’t know what it was for.
And again, upstairs I have received phones calls with people crying. I have rece
ived letters – heartfelt letters.
...The bad part about the dishonesty of the media is that people like me will be
 inclined not to do it anymore. Because why should you raise $5.6 million and I 
think I’ll go over $6 million pretty easily. Nobody said that we started this 
out as a small little project where it was less than $1 million because it kept 
just mushrooming and building and building. But nobody talks about that.
So we raised $5.6 million. We have so many happy groups. So many happy veterans.
And then I see these Hillary Clinton people outside. Now, of course, they don’
t know the extent. They probably figured based on reading the press that Trump d
idn’t make, you know, didn’t raise this kind of money.
But we raised a lot and I’ll be raising more and we’ll be sending it to othe
r people as we get along.






It’s a complicated process.






No, it doesn’t...You know, the government sort of approves different groups fo
r a lot of reasons. So it really does – and more than anything else, it’s al
so speaking to other veterans. We have a circle of veterans. I don’t want to s
end a $250,000 check to a group that doesn’t do good work. So it’s called ve
tting. We vet the vets. But it’s called vetting.






I think it’s bothersome because I love the vets and I’ve worked hard for the
 vets. And as you can see, I’ve given a lot of money and raised a lot of money
 for the vets.
And I think when the press portrays it differently, the press is being very dish
onest. So I don’t like that. I don’t like dishonesty.






Jeff Sessions is a fantastic man. Jeff Sessions is one of the most highly respec
ted people in the United States Senate.
Jeff Sessions is a person that I believe that Ted Cruz has the most respect for 
and I think Ted thought that he would get an endorsement.
You know, Jeff Sessions has never endorsed a presidential candidate before as ma
ny years as he’s been in the Senate.
So you know, Jeff Sessions is certainly somebody that I would consider. Absolute
ly. He’s a fantastic person.






I think it was a very tough call. It was amazing because there were moments with
 the gorilla the way he held that child that almost like a mother holding a baby
 – looks so beautiful and calm. And there were moments where it looked pretty 
dangerous. I don’t think they had a choice. I mean, probably they didn’t hav
e a choice.
You have a child, a young child, at stake. You know, it’s too bad there wasn
t another way.
I thought it was so beautiful to watch that powerful almost 500 pound gorilla an
d the way he dealt with that little boy. But it just takes one second. It’s on
e second – it’s not like it takes place over – well, he’s going to do it
 30 seconds from now. It just takes one little flick of his finger. And I will t
ell you they probably had no choice.
...




I’m entirely in favor of fixing the VA health care. VA is one of the great cat
astrophes in this country what’s going on.
You look at what’s happening in Phoenix and different places throughout the co
untry where they’re catching people stealing and they don’t even fire them, 
where people are waiting five days, six days, seven days on line. They’re dyin
g while they wait on line.
And I am in favor of if they can’t get to a doctor within a reasonable period 
of time, they’re going to see a doctor and the country’s going to pay for it
. They’re going to go to a private doctor or a public hospital and a public do
ctor but some place that can take them immediately. We’re losing thousands of 
people waiting on line.
And the Veterans Administration is run by Obama just as incompetently as he’s 
running our country.
You look at the TSA, you look at what’s going on at the airports and you look 
at that. Okay? Just take a look at that. That’s like the Veterans Administrati
on.
Nothing in our country works anymore. It’s a mess.
And maybe that’s why I’m doing so well in the polls.






No, it doesn’t have to be privatization. No, it doesn’t have to be privatiza
tion. What it has to be is when somebody’s on line and they say it’s going t
o be a seven day wait, that person is going to walk over to across the street to
 a private doctor, be taken care of. We’re going to pay the bill.
And by the way, that’s going to be a lot less expensive. And we’ll check it 
out and be careful. But that’s going to be a lot less expensive than what’s 
going on.
These people are living in hell.
And Hillary Clinton said the Veterans Administration is working just fine. And t
he head of it, [Bob] McDonald said last week that waiting in line is not bad –
 look at Disney World. Okay? These are the kind of people we have running things
. It’s ridiculous.






...That’s their choice. You have a party called the Democrats and they’re go
ing to have to make that choice. I think it’s probably going to be her because
 it’s rigged.
And I think if you people will say I’m the one that came up with the term "rig
ged". I used it for myself, except that I won by such big margins that the whole
 system is rigged on both sides. With the Republicans it’s less obvious. With 
Democrats with the whole super delegate thing, it’s ridiculous.
So I think that they’re going to have to make that determination.
If you’re asking me who I prefer running against?






I think what she did was very bad and I think a lot of people have done a lot le
ss than her and their lives have been destroyed.




The judge has been very unfair. Has not done a good job. He’s been a very bad 
judge. Has been very unfair. And I will win the Trump University case. I already
 am as far as I’m concerned. But I will win the Trump University case.
Because I don’t care...
I have a judge who’s very, very unfair.
Well, you’ll see it in court documents. But I have a judge who’s very, very 
unfair. He knows he’s unfair. And I’ll win the Trump University case. I can 
settle that case. I could have settled it. I just choose not to.
In fact, when I ran this, they said why didn’t you settle up that case? I don
t want to settle the case.
Because you know what? Because I’m a man of principle. And most of the people 
that took those courses have letters saying they thought it was great essentiall
y. It was good. It was great.
And you know what? When they’re on the stand and you say "How come you signed 
the letter saying that Trump University was so good? How come you signed the let
ter?"
The woman that was the original plaintiff in the case – they went to the court
 and the judge allowed her to get out of the case. The case should have been dro
pped. The whole case should have been dropped.
They wanted her dismissed from the case. You know why? Because she was deposed, 
she was such a bad witness that we’d win the case easily. She signed a letter 
and she’s on film. She’s on tape like these cameras saying unbelievably good
 things about Trump University. So they didn’t want her anymore because she’
s a disaster for them.
So they went to the judge and they said "Your honor, we’d like to have her not
 be a participant, not be a plaintiff in the case." And he said, "Oh, that’s o
kay." She’s the one that started the case.
Now, they don’t even want her to testify. They don’t want her to testify bec
ause she’s a disaster. She has all sorts of beautiful statements about it. And
 importantly, she’s on tape saying how great it is. They don’t want her. I w
ouldn’t want her either.
Now, I could have settled that case. I could settle that case. I can settle that
 case. I don’t want to. I’ll go through the process.






Because we’re down the line. Because we’re down the line and the fact that y
ou can’t win as independent. For the most part, you can’t even get on Texas 
and various other states now. It’s too late. But Texas is out.
...Here’s what happens. What happens is you will not have – and very importa
ntly – you will not have Supreme Court justices. You’re going to lose. You c
ould have as many as four or five. That’s over.
Now, [Bill] Kristol’s the one that’s – but he’s the last one. Don’t fo
rget, he said "Trump will never run." The guy’s not a smart person. He said, "
Donald Trump would never run." Remember?
You remember? I actually blame you. Why do you put this guy on television? I see
 him on the different shows. He’s got no credibility. Said I won’t run. If I
 run, I won’t do well. If I do well, this and that. He looks like such a fool.
I saw him on one show. He’s practically crying because he can’t justify.
Now he comes out with a tweet over the weekend – over Memorial Day weekend –
 it sounds like he’s going to put somebody up. Even I thought it. I thought, "
Oh, they’re going to find indie."
Now he comes out with something saying he was almost – almost – kidding. Oka
y?
Let me tell you, these people are losers. He’s trying to make you – he’s t
rying to drive you guys a little bit nuts.
If they do an indie, assuming it’s decent, which I don’t think anybody with 
a reputation would do it because they’d look like fools. But what you’re goi
ng to do is you lose the election for the Republicans and therefore you lose the
 Supreme Court, therefore you will have a group of people put on the Supreme Cou
rt where this country will never ever recover. It will never, ever be the same.






No, I didn’t say that. I said Bill Kristol is a loser and I’ll tell you why.
..He has called every single move. Take a look – on me, he’s going to lose t
his state – I won in a landslide...I didn’t say everybody. Many. I didn’t 
say everybody.
Wait, wait, wait. Bill Kristol is a loser. His magazine is failing, as you know.
 It’s going to be down – I don’t think it even survives. He’s getting so
me free publicity.
But Bill Kristol – I’ve been watching this for two years. "Trump isn’t goi
ng to run." Then I go into a race, we go into New Hampshire. "Oh, he’s not goi
ng to win New Hampshire." I win in a landslide. Every place I went I was not goi
ng to win. But I win in a landslide. Do you think maybe he doesn’t like me?






It’s wrong. It’s wrong. I didn’t get 30%.






My last score was 78%. I didn’t get 30%.






I don’t know. No, no, no.
Here’s the way I look at it.
When I have somebody that’s not on my side, when you know – by the way, I’
ve gotten great applause from the press in terms of as an achievement because th
e Republican Party is really well unified.
We have come up. People that you would have never thought possible are now sayin
g, "I support Trump." So remember that. We don’t talk about that too much.
But actually last week, the big story was how fast the Republican Party is heali
ng because it is a healing process. It was a rough – that was a rough campaign
...
I can this. The real is how fast we’re getting together.
Now, if I have a Republican who’s not on my side, I’m not going to be – wh
y should I be particularly nice to that person? I’m not going to go after it l
ike I would Hillary or Crazy Bernie. But you know what? Why should I be nice to 
that person if I have a person that’s not going to support me? I have no oblig
ation.
Politically, I may be right. I may be wrong. But that’s who I am. I’m a very
 honest person...
If somebody is going to say a little bit negative or a lot negative about me and
 if they happen to be Republican, I may choose to hit them back. Not always. But
 I may choose to hit them back.






I’m not a fan of Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney lost an election he should have won.
And if you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal about Mitt Romney, he 
looks like a fool.
Look, I’m not a fan of Mitt Romney. Just so you understand. I raised a lot of 
money for Mitt Romney. I made robocalls for Mitt Romney. I made speeches for him
. He let us down.
If you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal this weekend, Mitt Romney 
looks like a fool.
Now, what would I say good about Mitt Romney?






She was not nice and I was fine, just a little bit of a jab. But she wasn’t ni
ce. And you think I’m going to change? I’m not changing, including with her.






Bob Dole is a fan of mine. Bob Dole endorsed me. So don’t tell me about Bob Do
le.






Well, look, Gary Johnson, he got 1% of the vote last time. I watched that whole 
situation. It was pretty disgraceful. I think it’s a total fringe deal. I thin
k he’s a fringe candidate if you want to know the truth. I look at him and I w
atch him and I watch his motions and I watch what he says. I think that he is a 
fringe candidate...when you do a little research on that I think it’s not goin
g to be a factor. Okay?






No, not all of you. Just many of you.






Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is. Let me tell you something. I’m a person – yeah, it
’s going to be like this...If the press writes false stories like they did wit
h this – half of you were amazed that I raised all of this money. If the press
 writes false stories like they did where I wanted to keep a low profile. I didn
’t want the credit for raising all this money for the vets. I wasn’t looking
 for the credit.
And by the way, more money is coming in. I wasn’t looking for the credit.
But I had no choice but to do this because the press was saying I didn’t raise
 any money for them.
Not only did I raise it, much of it was given a long time ago. And there is a ve
tting process and I think you understand that.
But when I raise almost $6 million and probably in the end will raise more than 
six because more is going to come in and is coming in. But when I raise $5.6 mil
lion as of today, more is coming in. And this is going to phenomenal groups.
And I have many of these people vetting the people getting the money and working
 hard. And then we have to read probably libelous stories or certainly close in 
the newspapers and the people know the stories are false, I’m going to continu
e to attack the press.
Look, I find the press to be extremely dishonest. I find the political press to 
be unbelievably dishonest. I will say that.
Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.


Well, thank you very much everyone.
I want to start by, as always, thanking my family. My wife, Melania. My kids –
 they’re not kids anymore but they’re kids as far as I’m concerned. They
ll always be my kids. And I want to thank my great parents who are looking down
 right now and my brother looking down on us. I want to thank my entire family, 
including Maryanne, Elizabeth, Robert.
And it’s been some unbelievable day and evening and year. I never have been th
rough anything like this but it’s a beautiful thing to watch and a beautiful t
hing to behold, and we’re going to make America great again. We’re going to 
make America great again.
So important – so important that the people of Indiana have been incredible.
I started as you know not very long ago – about six weeks ago – and I was to
ld that I had a 20 point deficit.
And I went there and I worked very hard and I campaigned and I made lots of spee
ches and met lots of incredible people – incredible people. You don’t get be
tter, and the crowds got bigger and bigger. And toward the end, it was like I di
dn’t want to leave. I almost said, "Maybe I’ll just never leave" and it reso
nated somehow and we have a tremendous victory tonight.
It was a tremendous victory.
And I have to thank Bobby Knight. Boy, Bobby Knight was incredible. He was incre
dible.
I always that people like that – there aren’t many – but it’s called tou
gh, smart, and they know how to win. And that’s what our country needs. We hav
e to win again. We have to know how to win.
And we haven’t won. We’ve been losing all the time. We lose with our militar
y. We can’t beat ISIS. We lose with trade. We lose with borders. We lose every
thing.
We’re not going to lose. We’re going to start winning again and we’re goin
g to win big league. Believe me.
So when I got back tonight and I started watching all of the different networks,
 I could immediately that we were doing very well, and it really looks like a ma
ssive victory and it looks like we win all 57 delegates.


And I must say in staying in various places in Indiana, I turned on the televisi
on and all I saw was negative ads, negative one after another after another.
And I called my people and I said, "How can we win? It’s just constantly." It 
was the same as in Florida. You know, there’ve been 60,000 negative ads.
I got it right from you folks, okay? 60,000. In fact, two weeks ago it was 55,00
0. Now it’s 60,000 negative ads – most of which are absolutely false and dis
gusting. And I said how can anybody endure this?
I had one evening two nights ago where literally they had five ads on in between
 segments of a show that I was watching. And I said that’s just incredible.
And the people are so smart. They don’t buy it. They get it.
And it’s tremendous, tremendous amounts of money were spent – millions and m
illions of dollars. And they were comparing it. They think it was probably $8 mi
llion was spent against me and we spent $900,000. So, I mean, to me that’s the
 way it’s supposed to be. That’s something that makes me feel really, really
 very good.
And now we’re going to Nebraska where I have – I just hear we’re doing rea
lly wonderfully. I look forward to that very much.
And West Virginia. And we’re going to get those miners back to work. I’ll te
ll you what. We’re going to get those miners back to work.
We’re not going to be Hillary Clinton, and I watched her three or four weeks a
go where she was talking about the miners as if they were just numbers and she w
as talking about she wants the mines closed and she will never let them work aga
in.
Let me tell you, the miners in West Virginia and Pennsylvania which was so great
 to me last week and Ohio and all over, they’re going to start to work again. 
Believe me. You’re going to be proud again to be miners.
So we’ll be going there. I must say this tremendous run that we’ve had start
ed with New York when we had almost 62%. And don’t forget, that’s with three
 people. So 62% with two people is a massive landslide. But 63% almost – just 
a little over 62% – when you have that kind of a number with three people, it
s actually unheard of.
And all throughout, it was 17 people, then 15, then 12, you know, it’s tremend
ous, and we were getting very high numbers. And some of the numbers in my opinio
n that I got in the early stages were in a state with 32% but there were 14 peop
le. I think that might actually be more and better than getting 62% in New York.
 But we never got the credit for that.
But now we don’t need the credit because we’re going after Hillary Clinton. 
She will not be a great president. She will not be a good president. She will be
 a poor president.
She doesn’t understand trade. Her husband signed perhaps in the history of the
 world the single worst trade deal ever done. It’s called NAFTA.
And I was witnessed to the carnage over the last six weeks especially. Now I’v
e known Syracuse and I’ve known Poughkeepsie and I’ve known all of the diffe
rent places that I visited in New York and then Pennsylvania and then Maryland, 
which treated me so great the people are incredible.


And all of the different state – Connecticut. And I’ve witnessed what it’s
 done really firsthand. And it has been indeed carnage.
And we’re going to change it around.
We’re not going to let Carrier and all of these companies just think they can 
move – go to another country, make their products, sell it back to us, and we 
get only one thing: We get unemployment. Not going to happen anymore, folks. Not
 going to happen anymore.
We’re going to bring back our jobs and we’re going to keep our jobs. We’re
 not going to let companies leave.
Now, if they want to go to a different state, good luck, compete.
But when they start going to different countries and in many cases countries tha
t devalue their currency and make it impossible for our companies to compete, th
at’s not going to happen. Not going to happen.
And if they want to do it anyway, there will be consequences, and there will be 
very, very serious consequences.
I have to tell you that I’ve competed all my life. Competitive person. All my 
life I’ve been in competitions. Different competitions whether it’s sports o
r business or now for 10 months politics.
And I have to tell you that I have met some of the most incredible competitors t
hat I have ever competed against right here on the Republican Party.
You know, we started off with that 17 number. And just so you understand – Ted
 Cruz – I don’t know if he likes me or if he doesn’t like me. But he is on
e hell of a competitor. He is a tough, smart guy.
And he has got an amazing future. He’s got an amazing future. So I want to con
gratulate Ted.
And I know how tough it is. It’s tough. It’s tough.
I’ve had some moments where it’s not looking so good, and it’s not a great
 feeling. And so I understand how Ted feels and Heidi and their whole beautiful 
family.
And I just want to say that one tough competitor and I can say that for the othe
rs. I mean, Chris Christie who endorsed me. Incredible guy. Dr. Ben Carson who w
as right up there, one of the first. He just called me and said, "It’s a movem
ent you’ve got going. We’ve got to do something because I’ll tell you what
, it’s an incredible movement." And Dr. Ben Carson endorsed me. And I want to 
tell you that is an incredible man and we want to keep Ben totally involved beca
use we’re going to win. We’re going to win in November.
And we’re going to win big and it’s going to be America first.
You know, I made a speech the other day and I talked about how we’re the polic
emen for the world, how we protect other countries and they don’t respect us a
nd they don’t take care of us and they don’t treat us right in many cases.
And that’s not going to happen.
Now, we’re going to keep things going and we’re going to keep things going v
ery nicely but we owe – soon – $21 trillion. It’s $19 trillion now but wit
h a budget that was recently done, soon it will be $21 trillion.
And we’re just not in a position that we’re in 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 5
0 years ago when a lot of these things took place and began taking place.


So, we’re going to have unbelievably good relationships with other countries.
But likewise they have to treat us fairly and they have to understand that what 
we’ve been doing over the years has been so wrong and so unfair to the United 
States, to its people, and to its taxpayers.
So that will change. And I will tell you, they’re going to end up liking us be
tter than they do right. They’re going to respect us.
In this building right upstairs, I have the largest bank in the world from China
. The relationship is fantastic.
We have great relationships with many foreign countries. But they have to respec
t us and they have to understand where we’re coming from.
And you know, it is a two-way street. And the two-way street means that we’re 
going down one side and they’re coming up the other. And we’re going to meet
 and we are going to have something that’s going to be really fabulous.
Now, if that can’t happen. If for some reason they want this system to continu
e the way it’s going now, which is not fair and not good, where we’re spendi
ng trillions and trillions of dollars probably $4 trillion in the Middle East.
And we have to build our infrastructure, our roads. We have to rebuild our bridg
es, our airports, our hospitals in this country.
We’ve become close to a third world country. You look at some of our airports;
 it’s third world. And then you go to other countries and you see places like 
you’ve never seen.
So I have to say that we are going to turn it around.
We’re going to build up our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before
. It’s the cheapest thing we can do. And we’re going to have to take out ISI
S and we’re going to have to take them out fast. We can’t allow that cancer 
to continue. We cannot allow it to continue.
And you know, one group that’s been so incredible to me are the vets – the v
eterans. And they’ve been treated so badly. So badly. And we’re going to get
 that straightened out.
Now, one of the things that just happened, which to me is very exciting and it
s happened now with two or three. But the Rasmussen poll came out yesterday and
 in that poll, I’m now leading Hillary Clinton. A lot of good things...
And that’s going to continue because they’re not going to be able to do it, 
folks.
They’re not going to be able to make great trade deals. We have such bad deals
.
They’re not going to be able to do what we do with the military.
They’re not going to be able to do what we’re going to do on the border, inc
luding the wall.
We’re going to have unbelievably great relationships with the Hispanics. The H
ispanics have been so incredible to me. They want jobs. Everybody want jobs. The
 African-Americans want jobs. You look at what’s going on. They want jobs.
And we’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re going to save our jobs and peo
ple are going to have great jobs again.
And this country, which is very, very divided in so many different ways is going
 to become one beautiful loving country. And we’re going to love each other. W
e’re going to cherish each other. We’re going to take care of each other. An
d we’re going to have great economic development.
And we’re not going to let other countries take it away from us because that
s what’s been happening for far too many years and we’re not going to do it
 anymore. We’re not going to do it anymore.
I want to thank and congratulate the Republican National Committee and Reince Pr
iebus, who I just spoke to. He’s doing a tremendous job. It’s not an easy jo
b when he had 17 egos and now I guess he’s down to one.


I don’t know. Is there a second? I mean, is there a second? I don’t know.
But I have ask you folks to explain the status of that.
But he’s done an amazing job and I think we’re going to see something really
, really fantastic.
I also want to thank my staff, Paul, Cory, Pope. I mean, these people. What we
ve been doing has been incredible.
The work has been unreal.
And Jared [Kushner], married to my daughter Ivanka. I mean, honestly, you know J
ared is a very successful real estate person but I actually think he likes polit
ics more than he likes real estate. I’m excited. And he’s very good at polit
ics.
So again folks this has been an amazing evening. I didn’t expect this. I didn
t expect it.
And what Ted did is really a very brave thing to do and a great thing to do beca
use we want to bring unity to the Republican Party. We have to bring unity. It
s so much easier if we have it.
And many, many people are calling that you wouldn’t even believe – the media
, the press, they wouldn’t believe. People who have said the worst things abou
t me – I’ve never had things said about me like this.
You know, with my businesses, I’ve always been very respected. People didn’t
 talk to me this way. But in politics, it’s easy.
The worst things and they’re calling now and they’re calling us all and they
’re saying, "We’d love to get on the train" – the "Trump Train" they call 
it – "But we’d love to get on the team."
And I actually spoke to one today who was vicious. I mean, this guy was unbeliev
able. And I said, "I’d love having you and I think it’s terrific. But after 
what you said about me how can you possibly join our team?" And he said, "Mr. Tr
ump, don’t even think about it. Don’t worry about it. There’ll be no probl
em." In other words, he’s a politician; there’s no problem. I would have had
 a hard time.
But we have a lot of people coming – lots of congressmen. I have to thank Jeff
 Sessions – Sen. Jeff Sessions – one of the most respected men or people in 
Congress.
And so many others. I mean, Sarah Palin has been from day one incredible.
Jerry Falwell, Jr. Liberty University, I mean he is something. He is really a sp
ecial person. They’ve done an incredible job and everybody goes through Libert
y. We all go through Liberty and somehow he liked what I was saying and perhaps 
he liked the way I said it. But he’s a special guy and he really has helped. A
nd so many pastors and ministers.
And tonight, I see that I won with the evangelicals. The evangelical vote was fo
r Trump.
And there’s no greater honor. No greater honor. We’re going to work together
 for many, many years. We’re going to make it so good. We’re going to be say
ing Merry Christmas again. We’re going to be saying it...
And I won with women. I love winning with women. But I won with women. I won wit
h men. We won with Hispanics. We won with African-Americans. We won with every 
 virtually every category. So it’s just been an amazing evening.
So again, I want to congratulate Ted Cruz. He is a tough, smart competitor. I wa
nt to thank my wife and my family. It’s an incredible family.
I want to thank my staff – both my staff and my thousands and thousands of peo
ple that work for the Trump organization, and perhaps in all fairness more impor
tantly on this evening and for what we’re doing currently, my staff where we
re running for the presidency.
And remember this. Our theme is very simple. It’s make America great. We will 
make America great again. We will start winning again. You will be so proud of t
his country very, very soon.
Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you! Thank you very much!


So beautiful. She said, "Do you mind? I wrote something – coming out, I wrote 
something. Do you mind if I said it?" I said, "Not at all. Should I read it?" Sh
e said, "I don’t want you to read it. I don’t want you to read it."
Thank you very much. I want to thank Melania for that. That was very special.
You know, Wisconsin’s a really special place, and we’ve been all over today.
 Speeches all over. We had one before. Thousands and thousands of people standin
g outside of an airplane hangar because the hangar was packed. And we had anothe
r one in the morning, and it’s been an amazing day, and some phenomenal result
s.
You see what’s happening with the polls. Boom! Like a rocket ship. It’s like
 a rocket.
I guess I just heard when I walked in one just came out that we’re 10 points u
p. But don’t worry about that. Pretend you didn’t hear that. Go out and vote
 tomorrow. Okay? Go out and vote tomorrow.
You know, I always tell – I used to say this to politicians that run that’d 
be friends of mine, I’d say, "Pretend you’re a little bit behind. Okay? That
 way you’d work hard. You’d never forget."
But you know, there’s somebody that was – I saw just a little while ago in t
he audience a very special woman, an incredible woman, and Melania just said hel
lo and met her was so taken, and she represented you so beautifully. And some of
 you know who she is. Many of you know who she is.
But she was Miss Wisconsin. She has one of the most incredible spirits that I’
ve ever seen. She’s got her husband and her son and her son is absolutely magn
ificent and she loves him more than anything that you can imagine.


I’ll tell you that’s an amazing and just an incredible story and we’re goi
ng to make sure that it goes as well as it can.
She was so amazing the way she walked up here and just spoke from the heart, and
 we all have to speak from the heart.
And you noticed no teleprompters? We don’t have teleprompters. We want to do i
t right from here and from here and from here.
But I just want to – I saw Melissa, and I said, "I have to have you up" becaus
e her story’s an amazing story and it’s a story of courage and we’re going
 to work with her family and we’re going to make sure everything goes well.
Okay, thank you all very much.
So, in coming over today and in going through a few of them, I said to a few of 
the folks I’ve got to explain what’s happening because our country is being 
decimated by stupidity, by bad deals, by horrible trades, by TPP, which Cruz wan
ts badly and which is going to destroy Wisconsin.
This Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. Cruz is pushing it hard.
Kasich, I don’t think he’s a player here. I mean, the guy is one in 32. He
s one and it was in his own state. And if I would have campaigned there two mor
e days instead of staying in Florida, I would have won in my opinion Ohio. He’
s one and 32.
Now, in all fairness, Jeb Bush was doing a lot better than that. Many people wer
e doing better. It’s called you get out. He’s taking my votes. We have to ge
t over 50%. And how do you do that?
Look, at a certain point in life, what you do is you say, "I’m one in 32. In o
ther words, I’ve won one out of 32 states," and you do what Marco did, which w
as great, and you do what Rand Paul did, and you do what a lot of them did, and 
you get out.


And she’s going through a very hard time. And she has been so supportive and s
o like just incredible of what we’re all – what we’re trying to do. Not me
. I’m a messenger. What we’re trying to do – make America great again and 
bring it back and stop letting the world take advantage of us both militarily an
d we don’t win anymore.
We don’t win anymore. We don’t win with trade. We don’t win with the milit
ary.
We pay for everybody else’s military.
We don’t know what we’re doing.
And she saw it and she was here early. And she knows that we’re going to take 
care of our people, and it’s going to be America first. It’s got to be Ameri
ca first. We have no choice. We have no choice.
And she’s with a friend of hers who’s very well-known, Chelsea Cooley, who i
s a tremendous, tremendous woman and just an amazing person. Also a great singer
 but I won’t even mention that because Chelsea would be the last to want to ha
ve people know that. Chelsea is such a great friend of Melissa Young and Melissa
 Young – I just want to bring her and Chelsea onto the stage and maybe Melissa
 would like to say something and Chelsea. But this is just an unbelievable woman
.
So could I ask Melissa to come up on stage please?


And by the way, if you want, you could put your name up and you say "I want to r
un" and you go to the convention and you run.
But it would be nice to see – because I’ll tell you what, he takes my votes 
away much more than he does Cruz. And I don’t like it. I don’t think it’s 
right. I don’t think it’s appropriate.
But you know what? If we have to live with him, we still beat him easily. Okay, 
folks? I mean, okay?
But Kasich voted for NAFTA. NAFTA was a disaster for Wisconsin and it was a disa
ster for our country.
Ted Cruz wants TPP and it is going to make NAFTA look like peanuts. What they’
re doing to us with those documents, and Cruz is the one that insisted that we c
an’t talk about money manipulation, which is devaluation of currencies in the 
agreement. He wouldn’t let them do it. He’s the one that fought currency dev
aluation. That’s the single biggest tool that other countries have for taking 
our business, taking our money, and taking our jobs. And we can’t let this go 
on any longer.
Now, they’re controlled by their PACs. They’re controlled by the people that
 put up their campaign contributions. They’re controlled, you know, with the l
obbyists in Washington. They have signs on their forehead. It’s like stamped i
nto their forehead – "I take care of Cruz." They’re specialists. "I take car
e of Kasich." "I take care of Hillary."
Oh, Hillary. Ayeyeye. "Take care of Hillary."
So we can’t let it happen anymore. We can’t let it happen anymore.
It’s time – you know Obama used to say, "Time for change"? I’ll say it’s
 time for change but real change this time not that change. Real change.
Obama yesterday – President Obama yesterday for the first time he started havi
ng reservations about the Iran deal. I could have told him that six months ago, 
nine months ago, long before it was signed. The ink isn’t even dry and now he
s finally starting to understand it was a big beautiful mistake and it’s onl
y going to get worse.
And by the way, Iran is getting worse. They were supposed to come into the commu
nity. Remember? What a bunch of babies. Are we babies? Are we babies? Hello over
 there.
They were supposed to come into the community and they were supposed to, you kno
w, get involved.
Now, you see they just ordered 118 Airbus jets. Those are the big jets. 100. The
y didn’t order Boeing.
The reason – one of the reasons is we restrict them from spending. So we give 
them $150 billion and they’re not even allowed to give us money by investing, 
by buying our products. Okay? How crazy are we? How much longer is it going to l
ast? When are we going to get smart? When are we going to stop?
We as a country are being ripped off. We are being ripped off by virtually every
 single country in the world. Okay? Whether it’s militarily or trade.
We don’t win anymore. We can’t win with the military. We can’t beat ISIS.
Can you imagine Gen. MacArthur or Gen. George Patton? They say get rid of ISIS. 
What do you think?
...It’s so sad to see what’s happening to our country and we’re going to t
urn it around and we’re going to change it. And we’re going to make it rich 
again, and we’re going to make it strong again.
So, and so many different elements, and I’ve been talking about trade. I alway
s talk about trade.
Because when I announced on June 16th coming down the escalator with Melania, it
 was like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras; I’ve never seen anyt
hing like it. So many cameras. And I took a deep breadth and I said, "Let’s go
." Because we have to do it.
You know, it takes guts. Running for president, believe me, takes guts. It takes
 a lot of guts. Believe me.
And even for the politicians they run at least they’re out on the line, and th
en you see the dishonesty. You see where I won Louisiana and then I find out tha
t I’m not supposed to get as many delegates as the person that I beat. What ki
nd of stuff is that?
And somebody said, "Well, there’s a rule and another rule." I don’t care abo
ut rules, folks. I go out and I campaign. We win. We win. We get the delegates. 
Right?
But in the meantime, we have millions more votes than Cruz. We’ve beaten him i
n most of the states. I mean, we’re just winning so much. And we’re winning 
by almost 300 delegates.
So we’re doing great. And I think we close it out before the convention. I thi
nk we actually close it out before the convention.


And that’s like a prizefighter. You know, they go into unfriendly territory, a
nd the champ, he goes in. And they say, "What do you think? You may have an unfr
iendly decision." He says, "No, when you knock them out, there’s no unfriendly
 decision."
If we get the delegates, we’ve pulled out a knock-out. And that’s the way it
’s going to be, and I can see that happening because more and more people are 
calling, they want to get on board.
Frankly, when I looked at what happened – a friend of mine, who’s a great 
 you know, one of my great friends, he lives right down – not very far from h
ere. And he said, "With Wisconsin, you’re going win." I said, "Well, what do y
ou think? But I’m not seeing polls that are great. I’m a little bit down. I
m down in some. I’m a little bit down." He says, "No, no, you’re going to 
win. But you have to be there. You have to come in and you have to talk to the p
eople." Like we did this afternoon at the hangar. And he said, "You’re going t
o win. I mean, you’re going to win." He’s a very smart guy, I want to tell y
ou. Great guy. But he said, "You’ve got to come in."
We’ve been making – I’ve been making speeches, three today, four yesterday
, three or four the other day. We’re here constantly. You’re going to get so
 sick of me. You’re going to say, "Oh, get him the hell out of here."
No, we are making so much progress and it’s been so inspiring to see the peopl
e. I mean, look at even you people. You don’t sit down. If you want, you can. 
Oh, stay up. Stand up. What the heck? Hey, we’ve got plenty of time to sit dow
n, right? We’ve got plenty of time.
But I do appreciate that. That’s a sign of affection, and it’s a sign of res
pect, and I really do appreciate it. That’s really nice.
So we have to bring our country back and so many different things.
With China, we have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year.
With Mexico, we will build a wall. We will have strong borders. Strong borders. 
Believe me. We have a trade deficit of $58 billion a year. The wall’s going to
 cost $10 billion to build. And people, the politicians are saying, "How can you
 possibly get them to pay?"
Let me tell you something, folks. We have some good business people in this audi
ence.
When you have a $58 billion deficit, and you have a $10 billion wall, that’s r
eal easy. And that’s on a yearly basis the $58 billion. It’s really easy.
And they don’t understand it. They said, "How are you going to get them to pay
?"
I said, "It’s so easy." And you understand it. Just rely on me. Okay? Rely. So
 easy. That’s so easy. And we’re going to have a strong border.
You know, two days ago I was greatly honored because the Border Patrol, the folk
s that do a great job, and they’re told to stand back but they don’t want to
 stand back. They want to do their job properly. They’re proud people. They’
re incredible people. Frankly, before the wall goes up, we might not even need t
he wall, but we’re building it anyway. Okay? We’re building it. Believe me.
But the Border Patrol people are unbelievable people, and its 15,500 people gave
 me an endorsement two days ago. And I didn’t ask for it. I didn’t know.
First time, first time they’ve ever done it. Right? First time, they’ve ever
 done it and they gave me an endorsement. And it’s so important.
Now, Sheriff Joe [Arpaio] from Arizona. You know, I won Arizona very big, and Sh
eriff Joe was with me and it was incredible and we love it.
Look, we have to have strong borders. We can’t let the Syrians come in that we
 have no idea who they are, where they’re coming from. We don’t know if they
’re Syrians.
This could be the all-time great Trojan horse. Who knows?
I have as big a heart as anybody. We want to help them. We want to build safe zo
nes in Syria.
I want to get the Gulf States to pay for it. The Gulf States have nothing but mo
ney. We don’t have money. We will run it. We will do a good job. We’ll get i
t done but let somebody else pay for it for a change. We can’t do it.
...I keep getting these requests. You know, Al Green – the great Al Green wrot
e "The Snake". How many people have heard "The Snake"? How many people? Oh, do y
ou want to hear "The Snake"? Do you want to hear it? I mean, people love it and 
I love it because it says what’s going to happen to us if we’re not careful.
And this really pertains to allowing people into our country that we know are go
ing – we’re going to have problems. We’re going to have huge problems. All
owing people in from areas of the world we don’t know where they come from. We
 don’t know where their documents are. They say they don’t have documents. T
hey have no papers. No nothing. We let them in. How stupid can we be?
So this is called "The Snake" and I think it’s pretty good. All right? Are you
 ready for this? A couple of you have heard it but some of you haven’t.


"On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted 
woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted
 with the dew. ‘Oh well,’ she cried, ‘I’ll take you in, and I’ll take 
care of you.’ ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. 
Take me in, oh tender woman,’ cried the broken snake. She wrapped him up all c
ozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and
 some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, s
he found that pretty snake she’d taken in had been revived. ‘Take me in, oh 
tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ si
ghed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. ‘You’re so beautif
ul,’ she cried. ‘But if I hadn’t brought you in by now, heaven’s sake yo
u might have died.’ Now she stroke his pretty skin and then she kissed him and
 held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious 
bite. ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in
, oh tender woman,’ sighed the very, very healthy snake. ‘I saved you,’ cr
ied the woman, ‘And you bit me. Heaven’s why? You know your bite is poisonou
s and now I’m going to die.’ ‘Oh shut up, silly woman,’ said the reptile
 with a grin. ‘You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.’"
Right?
That’s what’s happening to our country, folks. That’s what’s happening t
o our country and we can’t let it happen. We have to be smart. We have to be v
igilant. We have to be strong. And if we’re not, we’re not going to have a c
ountry.
And we need borders and we’re going to have borders.
And we need great trade deals and we’re going to make great trade deals.
And we can’t let Mexico and I have great respect for Mexico and I respect thei
r leaders but we can’t let Mexico and China and any country you want to name s
teal our business, steal our jobs.
When you look at what’s happening in Wisconsin – and you see it – the reas
on I beat your governor and I beat him badly was I just read off the statistics.
 I just read – all I did, I stood up and I read statistics. You’re losing jo
bs...It’s very average. It’s very average.
Our country is less than average. Okay? Our country is doing so badly. And it’
s just one of those things and we have to smarten up and we have to get really t
ough. We have to get so, so, so vigilant and not be so politically correct. We h
ave to do what’s right for our country.
When the great Ford Motor Company – great company – when they build a $2.5 b
illion plant in Mexico, when Nabisco moves its massive plant to Mexico from Chic
ago, we can’t let it happen.
When Carrier Air Conditioners, as you know, they just announced they’re moving
 to Mexico.
Pfizer is moving to Ireland.
But let me just tell you. So, I watched the politicians and they have no busines
s instincts. But more importantly, they’re taken care of.
You know, a lot of friends come up to me and they say, "Donald, let me ask you a
 question. These politicians – are they really that dumb?" I said, "No, they
re not actually that dumb. Some are. But they’re not actually that dumb. They
’re all taken care of by the special interests. And when you want something do
ne, you see certain people in Washington."
Hey, who is better than me? I mean, take a look at me. I was before June 16th, I
 was a part of the establishment and they will do not what’s right for you but
 they will do what’s right for the company they represent or the country they 
represent and the United States continues to get ripped off, ripped off, ripped 
off.
And a lot of times, I’ll say, "How can a deal be so stupidly made? These peopl
e are so stupid." They’re not stupid. They’re doing it for themselves. They
re doing it because they want campaign contributions. They’re doing it becau
se they want money put in their PACs. They are totally controlled by the money. 
Believe me. They are totally controlled by the money, and that’s not good for 
our country. Okay? That’s not good because terrible things are happening and w
e’re getting weaker and weaker.
Hundreds of thousands and even millions of jobs are being taken out.


You look at the jobs we have. Even in Wisconsin, I mean, you see the jobs, the m
anufacturing, it’s all so down and so gloomy and throughout the United States.
 And it’s a disaster what’s going on in our country. We’re not going to ha
ve jobs left.
And they do it with manipulation of currency. And they do it with guile. They do
 it with so many different elements that our people don’t even know what’s h
appening.
Our politicians in most cases don’t even know what’s happening. And when the
y do know what’s happening and they let it happen, it’s even worse.
So I’m not taking money from anybody. I’m self-funding my campaign.
And we’re going to get it. We’re going to get it.
Now, I look at this U.S. manufacturing – I mean, just look at this. Look at th
ese charts. I mean, you can see them...This is where we’re going.
You know that’s not good. Right? This is where we’re going.
There was one that I just saw. Just got this. It’s like incredible.
Look at this. This is U.S. manufacturing jobs rapidly decline since year 2000. L
ook at that chart. Another couple of years, there won’t be any jobs.
And the jobs we have now are bad jobs. These are bad jobs. These aren’t good j
obs. And everybody admits that. Even the other side says, "We agree. They’re b
ad jobs."
And the number that they talk about when they say 5% unemployment – it’s a f
ictitious number. When you stop looking for a job, you’re considered statistic
ally employed.
It was a number that was made up years ago probably by president but certainly b
y politicians to make them look good, to make them look really good like the eco
nomy.
The economy is not good. The economy is bad.
We’re sitting on a bubble. The banks have money. They give it to you for nothi
ng if you’re rich. If you’re not rich, that’s when you need the money, the
y don’t loan it to you. So the people can’t do jobs.
Probably here you have some great companies, some really good smaller companies,
 you can’t get the banks to give you money. The banks are controlled by the re
gulators. They system that this country is run under is out of control.
And we’re going to change it. We’re going to bring back the jobs. We’re go
ing to bring back our companies.
And you know I’ve had such a response. And the reason I’ve had response is b
ecause of that and then I look at the ads today.
I’m in hotel and I look at the ads and Cruz makes up these ads. "We’re going
 to bring back jobs" – he’s using my same language.
Here’s the problem. They don’t know where to begin. They don’t know where 
to begin.
And if they did, Lyin’ Ted, lyin’, he comes up. Did you ever see a guy like 
this? Just look what he did with Ben Carson.
Ben Carson, who endorsed me by the way, is a great guy, and Lyin’ Ted, remembe
r in Iowa, he said "Ben has left the race. He’s left the race." This was on el
ection day. It’s not like two days before or the day after. "During the electi
on, he left the race." Okay? And people believed him and thousands of votes were
 cast not for Ben but for Ted Cruz. It’s pure deception. It’s lying.
And then there were many other things. And actually during one of the debates, M
arco Rubio looked over and he said, "You’re a liar." And I said, "You know, I 
never heard a politician call another politician liar so we can do it." So we no
w call him Lyin’ Ted – Lyin’. It’s crazy. It’s crazy.
I mean, what he does and what he says is just terrible. And you know, I’ve met
 a lot tougher people but I’ve never met any human that lied as much as him.
And he comes in and you noticed the tremendous evangelical support I have? I hav
e Jerry Falwell Jr. from Liberty University. I have all of these people. I have 
such incredible support.
And the evangelicals – he thought he was going to get the evangelicals but the
y don’t like liars and they see he lies so much.
Do you ever see him – he walks up and he walks in with the Bible, held high. R
ight? Held high and then he starts to lie.
Boy, he is bad.
So anyways, I don’t think that you’re going to fall for that. I really don
t think that anybody is going to fall – he doesn’t talk. He debates...I sai
d, "Ted, take it easy. Just talk. Talk. Talk."
But we’re doing really well. The whole thing is just working out. And I loved 
being here. You know, I’ve been here for a long time. I’ve been here for a l
ong time. I’m going here – we’re going to stay tomorrow. We’re going to 
have some, I think I’m doing Fox and Friends tomorrow morning. I’m doing som
e shows tomorrow. We’re going to do some shows and we’re going to be around 
and we’re going to make sure – we want to bring this home.
If we can – you know, we have a movement going on, folks. And it’s a movemen
t of intelligence, actually. It’s a movement of common sense. That’s all it 
is.
We’re not going to let Carrier make air conditioners, fire all of its people, 
move to Mexico, make the air conditioners then come in and take the money out of
 the country. It’s not going to happen anymore.


And I’m a free trader. And they say, "He’s not a – " Remember Jeb Bush? "H
e is not a conservative." I said, "What?" I am a conservative. But you know what
? I believe in free trade.
But when you have free trade, you need smart people running your side of the fre
e trade.
If you don’t have smart people or if you have people like Ted Cruz that are to
tally controlled by the people that give him the money and they’re controlled 
by the establishment. I mean, look at the establishment.
This guy in his whole life didn’t know what the word establishment meant. Now 
you have all these people going because they said, "Oh man, Trump is terrible. H
e doesn’t want any of our money."
I had one friend that came into my office – I don’t think I’ve ever said t
his before. He came into my office. He wanted to give me millions of dollars. I 
said, "I can’t take your money. I don’t want your money. I’m self-funding.
" He said, "No, no, no, you’ve got to be kidding." He didn’t even know. He t
hought I was kidding. He wanted to endorse me, wanted to support me. I said no, 
no, I don’t want. Anyway, he was finally convinced that I didn’t want his mo
ney and he’s leaving. And I said, "By the way, what are you going to do now?" 
He said, "I’m going to give it to another candidate." And I said, "Why?"
They’re gamblers. They have to do it. It’s like almost a disease. They have 
to do it. It’s the craziest thing.
He loves me. He wants to give give me probably close to $10 million. Right? I wo
uld have had the greatest Super PAC in the history if I would have taken all the
 money.
And my whole life, you know, I’ve said this before, my whole life as a busines
s person is this. Right? It’s okay. Nothing wrong with it. I take. I keep taki
ng. I take and take.
But now I’m going to take for the United States. We’re going to take. We’r
e not going to be the stupid people anymore. We’re not going to be the stupid 
people anymore. We can’t be. We can’t be.
And with NATO when they don’t pay, you know, I said – I was asked a question
 by Wolf Blitzer, a very fair question about NATO.
Now, you know, I’ve been a businessman. World class. I filed my business paper
s. They were phenomenal. Everybody says great, great, great. I built a great com
pany. Very little debt. Tremendous cash flow. Some of the greatest assets in the
 world.
And I tell you that only for one reason – that’s the thinking we need in Was
hington. We need some of that thinking.
And Wolf Blitzer asked me a question on television. He said, "Let me just ask yo
u about NATO." Now, I haven’t been asked about NATO a lot but I understand NAT
O and I understand common sense, and I’m like a smart person like many of the 
people in this room. Hopefully all of the people in this room.
But he asked me about NATO. I said, "It’s obsolete." This was my first thing.
And you know what? I’m the first one.
Guys that study NATO and good people but they study NATO and they say, "I don’
t believe it. What he just said, I never thought of it." They study it because t
hey’re so into it that they don’t realize because it was really put there.
You had the Soviet Union and now you have Russia, which is different but Russia 
is powerful so we could sort of say that’s a balance. So we’ll leave it.
But it doesn’t really cover terrorism like it’s supposed to. Doesn’t have 
the right countries. I mean, many of the countries and there aren’t – that y
ou associate with terrorism.
And so I said number one, it’s obsolete.
I said number two, to the best of my knowledge, the United States pay far too mu
ch proportionately and why are we always paying the bills to protect other peopl
e?
And the press, which is so totally dishonest, the press goes – headlines the n
ext day – "Trump doesn’t want NATO, wants to disband NATO". And that’s not
 what I said.
I said, you’ve got to pay your bills. And you know what? If you can’t pay yo
ur bills, honestly, there should be – they’ve got to go because we can’t d
o it. You know, this isn’t 68 years ago. This isn’t when it was originally f
ormed like many, many years ago, many decades ago, and you have to re-do things.
But it is interesting. Some of the smartest people have said "What Trump said is
 genius. It’s obsolete. And you know what? It’s true." There’s a lot of pe
ople, a lot of countries being given a free ride. We can’t have the free rides
 any more, folks.
...Thank you. Well, we need somebody with that...And it’s America first, folks
. It’s America first.
So then, as you know, North Korea is a big problem. North Korea is a problem. A 
problem that could be solved easily by China but they don’t want to solve it b
ecause they want to tweak us. They’re building in the South China Seas a massi
ve military fort. You know what’s going on. They shouldn’t be doing that.
And they’re taking our money and, you know, you talk about the imbalance of tr
ade, you talk about the kind of money. How about this? We owe China $1.7 trillio
n.
Now, they take our money. They take our jobs...I’m not angry at China. I’m a
ngry at our people and our leaders for letting it happen.
I’m not angry with China. If you can get away with it, you do it.
But they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our money. They take ever
ything.
We owe them $1.7 trillion. That’s sort of like a magic act. Doesn’t it? Amaz
ing.
Japan, they send cars by the millions. They come off those boats. Los Angeles 
 I was there at the docks. I looked at the biggest boats you’ve ever seen. Bi
ggest, greatest ships you’ve ever seen. The cars are pouring off the ships. We
 owe them $1.5 trillion.


It’s like, well, how does this all happen? Okay? How does it happen?
Here’s the story, folks.
We’re going to change our thinking. We’re going to be the smart people again
. We’re going to be so smart. We’re going to be so sharp.
So a lot of people don’t know we protect Japan. Do you know that? Does anybody
 know? You might know...We protect Japan. We protect Germany. We protect South K
orea.
When you want a television set, who do you get it from? South Korea. Samsung. LG
. You get it from South Korea.
So we protect all and big ships they make. These are monster, monster economies.
 We protect them.
They don’t pay what they should be paying for not having to have this massive 
military apparatus that we supply.
And you know what? We get that because we have people that don’t know what the
y’re doing in Washington for many years. I mean, I’m not even blaming it –
 Obama’s the worst. He’s the worst. The worst.
I mean, when he just realizes, I mean he just realized that the Iran deal is a b
ad deal. It just took him – realize – I said, "Oh, why didn’t you listen t
o me two years ago?" Just two years ago if he would have listened – can you im
agine? Did you ever see a deal take so long?
By the way, usually when a deal takes that long, it’s bad automatically. I can
 usually tell you that.
But anyway, so we protect Japan. So it comes out...I said, look, I would have to
 tell Japan and I’m talking about other nations also because I have great frie
nds from Japan, I have great friends from South Korea. We have to go see them, g
o to talk to, have a meeting with them, "We love protecting you." We don’t wan
t them to arm necessarily. But you know, at some point, how long are we going to
 do this?
So we have to see them and we have to say, "You’ve got to help us out."
You know, we have this massive, massive amount of money that we have to get rid 
of because we’re sitting on one of the worst bubbles you’ll ever see. Okay? 
Believe me. We’ve got to straighten it out.
We’ve got to straighten out our trade deals. We’ve got to straighten out our
 military deals. We’re taking care of all these countries.
So we go to Japan. And here’s what the...I was telling the people and they sai
d "Wow, that sounds good." We’ve got to take – you’ve got to take care of 
us.
Now, they’ll probably say initially "No". And then we leave and then they’re
 going to say, "Yes."
But if they don’t say yes, you always have to be prepared to make a great deal
 to walk. You have to be...
The problem with the Iran deal was that Secretary Kerry was like an amateur. Cal
l him amateur night. He refused to walk. They were laughing at him in the street
s of Iran. They were claiming the deal was the greatest deal ever made before it
 was even made. They were saying "This deal is unbelievable." They were laughing
 at the Secretary of State of this country. They were laughing at the United Sta
tes saying that this deal is great. And they were dancing. Remember? Burning the
 flag dancing?
When they start dancing about a deal that I’m making, when they start burning 
the American flag, I’m out of there. Bye bye. Good luck.
And he just kept going back.
And I kept waiting. I wanted to call him. I wanted to call him. I wanted to say,
 "Walk." Because every single thing – he’d say, "We would like to get this."
 "No!" "Oh, okay. You’ve got it. We would like to get that." "No!"
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. It’s an unbelievable deal.
But just yesterday, Obama just yesterday he brought it up that he’s very unhap
py.
I mean, think of it. Think of it. $150 billion. It’s the worst deal. We didn
t get our prisoners back. We should have had the prisoners back before we start
ed negotiating. Increase the sanctions. Don’t sit at the table. Say "You give 
our prisoners back or we’re not starting." You leave. They’ll say "No". You 
leave. And what happens? You double up the sanctions. Within 24 hours, they call
 you and they say, "You’ve got your prisoners." That could have been years ago
. Right?
So we have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
Here’s the story. You need Trump. You do. You need Trump. You bet...You do. I 
mean, you’ve got to have Trump.
I mean, it’s sort of interesting because I see when I turn on the television, 
I see these ads about myself by crooked people.
I see these ads and they’re mostly wrong. A little bit sometimes are right but
 they’re all negative. You know. And I’m looking, I’m watching this on tel
evision – ad after ad.
In Florida, they spent $38 million on negative ads and I won it in a landslide..
.Does anybody read? Does anybody watch television? You know, it’s not much for
 the advertising community when you think they spent $38 million – a record nu
mber in Florida.
They spent thousands and thousands of ads nationwide – listen to this one – 
55,000 negative ads on me. Most of them was made up.
I’ll give you one good example.
We have the Club for Growth, which is forget them. These are among the dumbest p
eople that you’ll ever meet.
They come to my office. They want me to give them $1 million.
A friend asked me, "Please see them." I said, "Who are they?" "They’re Club fo
r Growth." Whatever that means.
So they come to my office. They asked me for $1 million. I say, "No, thank you."
 And that’s it.




Then they write me a letter, which I posted, asking me for $1 million. I said ve
ry nicely – I’m not a bad person – I said nicely "No, thank you." I mean, 
you can be rich but you don’t have to be stupid. Okay? Why am I going to give 
them $1 million?
So, what happens is all of a sudden I see their name all over the place – "Clu
b for Growth" and they talk about, you know, different things – ridiculous thi
ngs. I mean, they’re the worst ads.
And by the way, once was a fraudulent ad because they said, "If Cruz and Kasich 
got together and you added the delegates" – and they showed the delegates. Rig
ht? And you add them up – and I’m over here with a lot. And they said – an
d they add them up and they show a graph that goes much higher than mine and it
s much lower than mine.
They’re a fraud. And what we did is we told them to stop that ad and that was 
a week ago. And we tweeted about it. And everybody’s talking about it. And I s
ee it last night again.
They’re crooked. So here’s what they do. It’s like a form of extortion, I 
guess. Right? When you think of it. They come to your office. They ask for $1 mi
llion. You don’t give them $1 million. They go out. They do negative ads.
These are the people – you know, if these people about Trump – they call it 
like "No Trump". What do they call that thing? They call it "Never Trump". Oh, y
ou need Trump so badly though.
I was saying if they would work, if they would have worked so hard, so diligentl
y against President Barack Hussein Obama, they would have beaten him. They would
 have had great budgets. They would have had everything they wanted.
But with him...I always say, "Obama is the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen." Y
ou look at the – no, except with the Republicans. He gets everything he wants.
I mean, you look at the omnibus budget from three months he got everything he wa
nted – fund Obamacare, bring people into the country that shouldn’t be here.
 He got everything he wanted.
So he is the worst negotiator worldwide.
We have Sergeant [Bowe] Bergdahl. Right? We get Bergdahl, a traitor. No, no, thi
nk of it. This is a negotiation. We get Bergdahl. And they get – what do they 
get? Five of their most coveted killers that have been in jail for eight years i
n Gitmo, which we’re not closing down by the way. Okay? We’re going to run i
t.
So we get Bergdahl, a traitor, who five or six – probably six – people were 
killed going out to try and get him back. He left. He’s a traitor.
So we get Bergdahl, and that’s what we get. And they get five people that are 
right now back on the battlefield or soon to be back on the battlefield trying t
o kill everybody in sight, including us. Okay?
We’ve got to stop it. We’ve got to stop it.
So with Japan, I said they got to – maybe we’ve got to walk. And the next da
y the headlines – "Trump doesn’t want to defend Japan", "Trump wants Japan t
o get their nukes".
Okay, here’s the story, folks. You have Japan. Japan is very concerned with No
rth Korea.
You know, number one, I like the way it is now but I want them to pay a lot more
 money. They probably will. But if they don’t, it’s not so bad if they are a
t heads. Maybe we’re not supposed to get into that fight. That’s a bad fight
. Maybe we’re not supposed to. Okay? Okay?
Same thing with South Korea. I mean, every time he raises his head and he starts
 talking, every single time he raises his head, our ships start floating over, o
ur planes start going over. We do all sorts of exercise. What are we get out of 
this? We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.
So, we have to be taken care of.
Now, I’m talking as a person financially. Okay? I’m also talking militarily.
 But I’m talking financially.
We don’t have a country that can do this anymore.
Saudi Arabia, until the oil went down and now they’re still making a fortune. 
But Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day. We protect Saudi Arabia. If we wer
en’t there, Saudi Arabia wouldn’t be there. If Saudi Arabia didn’t have us
 for years protecting them, they would have been gone a long time ago as Saudi A
rabia. Somebody else would have it, probably maybe Iraq because he would have co
me back.
And by the way, speaking of that, you know, I was against going into Iraq. Every
one says, "Oh, Trump is going to be very tough." I was against going into Iraq f
rom the very beginning, from the very beginning.
And I’m going to build our military bigger, stronger than ever before. But you
 know what? Hopefully, we never have to use it. Nobody’s going to tell us what
 to do though. We have to shape it up because our military is totally depleted.
But if our politicians would have gone to the beach for the last number of years
, many years, we would be much stronger in a sense. We’d be much stronger beca
use the Middle East is a disaster. You see the great migration. It’s a catastr
ophe.
You see what’s going on in Germany. It’s a total mess. What she has done.


Can you imagine? She was Person of the Year.
I was supposed to be Person of the Year on Time Magazine. She beat me out and sh
e destroyed Germany. Can you believe this?
That’s not good. I wonder if Time Magazine had that one to do over again what 
they’d say. I think we’ll be in much better shape. Well, they’ve treated m
e nice. I’ve been on the cover a lot.
And the reason we’re on the cover a lot is because we have a movement the like
s of which people have never seen.
So here’s the story. Here’s the story.
You know, one of the great writers called me up and he said, "What you’ve done
 is incredible." I said, "No, no, I have to win." He said, "No, no, it makes no 
difference. If you win, if you lose, it doesn’t matter. What you’ve done is 
down in the history books. You will be cover for all time. It’s incredible." I
 said, "No, sir. No, sir. I have to win. Because if I don’t win, to me, I will
 consider it a tremendous waste of time and waste of money but a tremendous wast
e of time."
So here’s the story. Here’s the story. We’re going to take care of our Sec
ond Amendment. It’s being chipped and chipped.
We’re going to get rid of Common Core. We’re going to bring education back l
ocally.
We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total catastrophe. You
’re going to have great health insurance.
We’re going to save your Social Security. We’re going to save your Medicare.
 We are going to save it because we are going to make our country rich again. We
’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re not going to let our jobs go. And we
’re going to be able to afford – you’ve been paying in it a long time and 
a lot of these guys want it to be knocked to hell. It’s not going to happen. O
kay? Remember that. It’s not going to happen.
We’re going to start winning again, folks. We don’t win anymore. We don’t 
win anymore. We don’t win with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We’re goi
ng to win. We’re going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
We don’t win with our vets. Our vets are being treated worse than illegal immi
grants. Our vets are being treated so unfairly. They’re our great people.
And other people – you know, vets have endorsed me virtually unanimously and a
 lot of the vets will come up to me and say, "You know, Mr. Trump, we follow clo
sely what’s going on. You’re the only person that ever mentions the vets." R
ight?
And Hillary Clinton recently said about the vets that they’re being taken care
 of just fine. They’re not being take care of fine. They’re not being taken 
care of. She said they’re being taken care of just fine.
I know the vets. Nobody’s spent more time with the vets that are running. And 
we’re going to take care of our vets. Okay?
We are going to tear up and make great and very lucrative and everybody is going
 to be happy, including the other side, trade deals.
I have the greatest people in the world for dealing.
We use political hacks that don’t know what they’re doing. They’re dealing
 against the smartest people in China, the smartest people in Japan, the smartes
t people from all over the world, and our negotiators are political hacks and we
’re not using them anymore.
We’re using the greatest business people in the world and we have them in this
 country and they’re endorsing me, and I know the best ones from the not so gr
eat ones. And we’re going to have great, great trade deals.


We’re going to have a strong border. We’re going to have a real border. We
re going to have a wall. Mexico is paying for it. We’re going to have a wall.
And we’re going to stop bad, bad things from happening in this country. Becaus
e if you look at what’s going on and you look at the tremendous crime and you 
look at the drugs that are pouring across the border, it’s – the drugs are p
ouring like water. They’re pouring across.
You know when I won – New Hampshire is a special place to me because they were
 the first victory I had. And I won New Hampshire, and I wasn’t expected to wi
n it; Jeb was expected to win it. And I won it in landslide.
And I’d go around and I’d see the people of New Hampshire, and they tell me,
 "Mr. Trump, our biggest problem is heroin." I said, "Heroin?" It doesn’t make
 sense. You know, you look at the beautiful trees or the woods or the roadways a
nd the lakes. I said, "Heroin?" It just doesn’t work. It’s incongruous. Righ
t? It doesn’t work. But it was heroin. And I said, "If I get in, we’re going
 to stop that problem." Then I said, "Where does it come from?" They said, "It c
omes from the southern border. They come right in."
Now, New Hampshire rated it their number one problem. They have a tremendous pro
blem. But many other communities, including you, but many other communities have
 this problem. We’re going to stop it cold, folks. We’re going to stop it co
ld.
And the bottom line is this. Look, we have a big, big day. And you’re going to
 look back on this evening and you’re going to say that was one of the great e
venings of your life because we love the country. We love the country.
...I love you too. Thank you.
Really do. I love the people. I love the people.
You know, they say Donald Trump – my base is so strong. They say, "Donald Trum
p can do almost anything." In fact, one person today said "Anything".
And they interviewed a woman, I saw her last night on television sitting in a ho
tel room, which was not the most beautiful room I’ve ever been. It was very cl
ean, and I only want clean. I don’t care about the room. I want clean.
But they were sitting there and they said to a woman – a wonderful woman, prob
ably 55 years old, and her friends were there. And they said, "What would it tak
e to get you to vote for somebody other than Donald Trump?" She said, "Don’t p
lay that game. There’s nothing he can do that would get me to vote against him
." And I wanted to go up and I wanted to hug that television set.
I wanted to – I wish I could find out who she is. But we have so many people l
ike that. We’re all like that. I mean, a big chunk of the country is like that
 because we’re tired of stupidity. We’re tired of seeing what’s happening 
to our great country.
So, here’s the deal. You’re going to go home and you’re going to remember 
this.
But much more importantly, tomorrow, you get everybody you can and I promise you
. You’re going to be so proud of your country. You’re going to go out and vo
te. You’re going to be so proud of your president. But forget that. You’re g
oing to be so proud of this country again.
And you’re going to remember the evening because we’re going to start winnin
g again. We’re going to win on trade. We’re going to win with our military. 
We’re going to knock out the ISIS.
We’re going to win. We are going to win with the military. We’re going to kn
ock out ISIS. We’re going to knock them out.
We’re going to win for our vets because our vets have been treated too badly. 
It’s not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to win at the border. We’re going to win with education.
We’re going to win with our Second Amendment. So many people talk to me about 
the Second Amendment.
We’re going to win at every single element of what we’re doing. And every si
ngle thing we’re going to win, win, win.
And you’re going to say, "That was the single greatest vote that I have ever c
ast", and you’re going to look back and you’re going to be proud of yourselv
es and you’re going to be proud of your country again.
So thank you very much everybody. This is a great, great honor. Thank you!
Get out and vote! I love you all! Thank you! Thank you very much! Thank you!


Thank you. I feel so badly. Outside we have 5,000 people and they can’t get in
. I feel badly. I want to apologize. We have speakers outside. But I want to apo
logize. Who would have thought we have over 5,000 people cannot get in.
...It’s an honor to be here. It’s an honor to be with you. And very importan
t. You know, we’re doing really well and millions of votes ahead of Cruz. Mill
ions.
You know, I get a kick. I call him Lyin’ Ted. Lyin’ Ted Cruz. He stands up 
 and I win as you know, you’ve seen it. I have been winning all of the evang
elical vote. But he stands up Bible high, puts it down and then he lies. You kno
w, it’s amazing to watch it.
But he said, "Yeah, I’m the only one who can beat Donald Trump. I’ve done it
 time after time."
And I said, "Wait a minute. I’ve won like most of the states."
I think he had like 5 or 6 and I had 20 or 22. Right?
And I said I can’t believe it. And I have millions of votes more.
He says, "I’m the only one that can out-vote him." And I’m saying but I have
 like millions of votes more.
I’ll tell you something so important. There is something happening. It’s lik
e a movement. It’s incredible. It’s a movement. And we’re part of the move
ment.
Not me. I’m a messenger to be honest. I’m a messenger.
And this is something that’s so special and so amazing and it’s on the cover
 of time magazine. It’s on the cover of every newspaper. It’s something that
 has maybe never happened and they’re saying it’s phenomenon.
Sometimes they say I’m a phenomenon. I’m not. The message is what we want.
We want jobs. We want trade deals that are smart deals not stupid deals.
And you know, Wisconsin. I wrote down some notes...and it’s like devastating.
So [Scott] Walker came out today. I wrote down notes about Wisconsin.
Look, he certainly can’t endorse me after what I did to him in the race. Right
?
But look at this. By the summer of 2015, Wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion two
-year budget deficit. That’s terrible.
By the way, these are out of books. Like this isn’t Trump. This is out of book
s.
Total state debt is $45 billion. Now, maybe somebody is going to tell me that’
s wrong but again these are – $45 billion. Very high. One of the higher ones.
20,000 fewer people in the labor force in Wisconsin than seven years ago even th
ough population has grown by 100,000. So your population is higher.
Now, I wouldn’t have done this but he endorsed Cruz. What am I going to do? Am
 I going to say he’s doing a great job? He’s not doing a great job.
You know, he comes in with his big motorcycle jacket and big Harley. I love Harl
eys. Right? But the motorcycle guys like Trump. They really like Trump.
And he doesn’t look like a motorcycle guy to me. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
Unemployment rate – well, they say – that can’t be possible. Unemployment 
– they have down 20%. That can’t be possible. What? Is it 20%? Effective or 
regular? Effective unemployment rate 20%. Hey, this is out of the big book.
800,000 food stamp recipients.
Middle class hit very, very hard due to loss of manufacturing jobs. These are th
e stats. Right? You know about this, right?
It goes on and on.
Wisconsin has lost 15,000 net jobs to Mexico since NAFTA.
Now, just so you understand, Kasich is running also. We forget about him. He vot
ed for NAFTA.
Both of them want TPP. TPP – Trans-Pacific Partnership. Both of them want Tran
s-Pacific. That will make NAFTA look like a baby, and Wisconsin will be hit so h
ard.
...


...But the motorcycle guys love Trump.
I love the disabled veterans and the veterans. We’re going to take care of our
 veterans. You know that, right? We’re going to take care of our veterans.
What is it about Trump that they like?
I’m serious. We went to Hilton Head. We went to different places, and there we
re hundreds, hundreds of bikers out there. Beautiful bikes. Lots of Harleys, rig
ht? Lots of Harleys. Made in America. But beautiful, beautiful bikes...
I don’t know what it is but they like me. I feel good with them. I feel safe. 
I got out took a picture. Secret Service went crazy.
I said, "These are great people. Don’t worry about it."
But listen, I appreciate it, fellas, I appreciate it.
...We’re going to keep you free. I’m going to keep you free.
Because we’re getting rid of ISIS.
We’re going to have good borders. We’re going to have borders again. We’re
 going to have borders again.
So here we have something that’s pretty interesting – I love you too.
You lost 70,000 jobs to China. 70,000 jobs.
100,000 illegal immigrants living in Wisconsin. Taxpayers are paying tens of mil
lions of dollars.
Look, I don’t know. I don’t know.
So what happened with Walker and I just will finish off with this – he’s a n
ice man. He came up to my office like about a year ago before I did – you know
, I’ve been a politician for about eight months, right? I never thought I’d 
be a politician. The last thing on my mind I want to be was a politician.
But I built a great company. I filed papers. The company is incredible. Very lit
tle debt, tremendous cash flow, some of the great assets in the world.
And I say that not in a bragging way. I say that because that’s the kind of th
inking we need, folks.
We can’t have China ripping us off and Mexico and Japan and Vietnam. We can’
t have it. We can’t have it. And they are ripping us like they’ve never ripp
ed anybody before.
We’ve rebuilt China. I mean, we’re rebuilding Mexico.
You look the other day you saw Carrier moving down. Carrier Air Conditioning. I 
buy those air conditioners – a lot of them. I’m not buying any more of them.
 But Carrier Air Conditioning moving to Mexico. Ford moving to Mexico.
Nabsico – home of the formerly wonderful Oreo which we don’t eat anymore. Ri
ght? We don’t eat it. We don’t eat it. Number one, it’s a good – it’s 
called an enforced diet.
But you know what? Look, we’re losing our jobs. Look at your jobs.
When I see that statistic, I mean you’re losing your jobs.
When I went after your governor when he decided to run and I said, "You know, I
m going to be nice to him. He’s a nice guy." The guy came up to my office. H
e handed me a plaque because I supported him. What do I know? I supported him. I
 gave $50,000 or $100,000. That’s a lot of money for a guy you’ve never met 
before. Right? That’s pretty good.
But I like the fact that he was fighting, fighting, he was always fighting.
You know, to a certain extent, I’d rather see somebody able to make a deal wit
hout having to go through all of that mess.
But he was fighting and I gave him a lot of money and he came up, you know, a ye
ar ago or so and he gave me a plaque. Beautiful picture of something. I haven’
t – I never really got to read it to be honest. And I put it aside. That was i
t...
Because if we win Wisconsin, it’s going to be like over, pretty much over. Bec
ause we’re going to do great.
...Emerson poll came out. I think I have 67%, 68% in New York compared to like 1
0% or whatever, and you have Cruz talk about New York values, New Yorkers are no
 good.
I watched New Yorkers rebuild the World Trade Center. I watched New Yorkers dyin
g.
Believe me, New Yorkers are good. New Yorkers are very good. But Cruz said they
re no good.
So anyways, so I think we’re going to do great in New York.
We’re going to do great in New Jersey. Chris Christie endorsed me. We’ll do 
great in New Jersey. Good guy.
Ben Carson endorsed me. Sarah Palin endorsed me. Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We lo
ve Sheriff Joe.
And you know, with the evangelicals, I’ve had so many ministers. I’ve had so
 many pastors endorse me. And Jerry Falwell, Jr. endorsed me. It was incredible 
and we’ve done so well with the evangelicals. I mean, Christians, evangelicals
, we’ve done so well.
In fact, in South Carolina, when we went to South Carolina, that was going to be
 Cruz’s territory. He was going take it, except we won it in a landslide.


You know that. You saw it. He was there. This guy follows me around, I’ll tell
 you.
But you were there. Remember, he was going to win that in a landslide. And then 
I started speaking. I started talking to people, and I started saying the good a
nd the bad and the ugly.
And we won in a landslide and we won the evangelicals. I’ve won just about I t
hink almost every place I’ve won with evangelicals.
And it’s been an amazing time.
So now I’m here to talk to the people of Wisconsin. I have friends in Wisconsi
n. I’ve been here before. It’s an incredible place but it’s a place that h
as problems.
But you have a governor that has you convinced that it doesn’t have a problem.
I remember when he was on the campaign trail, I was so nice to him. I said, "How
 can I hit him? I’m not going to hit him. I’m not going to hit him."
And I was so nice. I hit Jeb instead, right? Right?
And I hit Rand, Rand, old Rand.
And I hit a lot of people and they all went down.
Wouldn’t it be nice to have a president that could just with his mouth make th
ings happen that are positive? You know.
But it’s not with the mouth. It’s really with the mouth, the heart, and the 
brain. Remember the brain.
I have a lot of friends. They’re good with the mouth but they’re not good wi
th the brain. It all doesn’t work. Okay?
You know, we had an interesting thing today. A poll came out – a nationwide po
ll. A great poll. It was Trump 48%. It was an NBC poll. Trump 48%. Cruz was seco
nd in the 20s, mid-20s something. And Kasich was way down.
So what happened is they showed the poll. It was an NBC poll. They call it an NB
C monkey poll. And it was on the Today Show, and it was on Morning Joe. Morning 
Joe held it up and he said, "Wow, those are great numbers."
48% is pretty good. You have three people. You know. I don’t get enough credit
 for that.
I’ve been at 42%, 44%, 45%, and I’ve had like seven people. How do you get 4
5% when you have seven people? Nobody says that. They say, "He hasn’t cracked 
50%." How do you crack 50% when you have all these people running?
So I’m at 48%. Poll was good – way, way ahead of anybody else nationwide. An
d they showed Hillary Clinton – hers is very close.
She’s got a little problem. Could happen. Got a bigger problem with the emails
 than she has with Bernie to be honest with you. She should have. Her bigger pro
blem should be with emails. We’ll find out how honest our country is, right?
But she’s got a sort of close race. And they put her poll up and it was put up
 there. You know, big letters.
And then they said, "And Donald Trump is winning." That was it. They didn’t pu
t numbers up. They didn’t say I’m doing great. In fact, they said, "Donald T
rump is winning," and they put some – a little slightly negative statistic in 
– it was like wait a minute. They put her numbers up and they didn’t put my 
numbers up.
Folks, it’s so unfair. The press is so dishonest. It’s unbelievable. That wa
s Chuck Todd. That was Chuck Todd this morning on the Today Show.
They put Hillary’s numbers. And I’m winning by a lot and they said, "Donald 
Trump is winning. You know, let’s go to a new subject, okay?"
Now, I guarantee you one thing. If I was losing or doing poorly, it’ll still b
e up. It’ll be up all morning because they don’t like what’s happening. I
m self-funding my campaign. I’m putting up my own money. They don’t like i
t.
Ted Cruz and Kasich are getting money from the banking industries, the energy in
dustries. They’re getting money from the pharmaceutical companies. They’re g
etting money from everybody.
Folks, you can’t straighten out this mess – we’re in a mess – if you can
’t do what you have to do.
When millions of dollars are given to Cruz and Kasich and millions from differen
t industries, you’re not going to be able to say, "Well, we’re going to do a
nd go against the banking industry to do what’s right for the people" if the b
anking industry gave you millions of dollars. Now, that’s true with Hillary al
so. Now, she’s gotten millions of dollars.
But I’m the only one self-funding my campaign. I’m in for a lot of money. I 
in a lot of money.
What is beautiful is when I was running against Jeb in New Hampshire. I was in f
or like $2 million. Jeb was in for like $48 million. I was in first and he was c
lose to last.
I said, "Who do you want as your president?"
By the way, did Jeb endorse anybody yet? Because I haven’t heard. Because I th
ink Jeb probably endorsed – huh? Did he endorse? It just shows you how importa
nt it is. Nobody even knows. I don’t even know.
He’ll probably – he’ll endorse – just so you know. Look, when you’re i
n war, you’ve got to fight and you fight hard.
When I fight, I win. You’re going to win. You know that. You’re going to win
.


But you know, you do pretty serious damage, right? Because you want to win and y
ou want to win fast and a lot of people don’t love you after you finish.
But I just love you. I don’t care about that.
In fact, they’re asking Cruz, you know, at the debate which by the way they sa
id I won every single debate. Now I heard the other night, "I want to debate Tru
mp". I’ve debated him 11 or 12 times. Every single online poll has me winning 
the debates. He’s an okay debater but he’s a bad talker. You know, everythin
g’s so dramatic.
And he waits. Phony. And he waits. You know, you ever see he goes sentence after
 sentence and then he stops for like three, four seconds. And then he goes again
. It looks like we’re in the theater. We’re not in the theater. We’re in t
he real world.
So what happens – thank you.
...By the way, the Sheriff is here and he’s a great guy and his people are fan
tastic. Thank you, Sheriff. Thank you.
I mean, the only thing I feel so guilty about all the people outside. Feel so gu
ilty. We’re going to come back. We’re going to come back, come back to this 
area. You guys cannot come. Okay? All of the ladies can come but the guys can’
t.
But all of the people outside, we’re going to take a bigger place because I fe
el slightly guilty.
But look, we have a very serious mess on our hands. We have a very serious situa
tion.
We have a country that’s not protected.
We have a country that’s sitting on a big fat bubble that’s going to explode
. In a certain way, I’d say let it do now, don’t do it after I get in. Three
 days it’ll explode and they’ll say it’s Trump’s fault. Okay?
Ayeyeye, we are in a big fat ugly bubble. We have interest rates that are so low
 that if you’re rich like me I can borrow money for any amount. If you’re a 
hardworking guy with a great farm or you’re a hardworking developer or busines
sman you can’t borrow money.
You can only borrow money really cheaply – think of how bad it is – you can 
borrow money for nothing practically if you’re rich. But if you’re rich, you
 don’t need the money so you don’t have to borrow it.
But if you’re a businessperson and you want to go to the bank for a loan, you 
can’t get it.
The regulators are running the banks. Dodd-Frank is a disaster, by the way. It
s a disaster. It’s a disaster.
But the biggest disasters are regulations. Our rules and regulations are horribl
e. We’re going to get rid of probably 85% of them. There are some we live with
. But we’ve got to go back.
So many people in this area have told me regulations – regulatory climate – 
is the worst they’ve ever seen.
I have a friend, who’s a farmer, and if a puddle forms, they consider it a lak
e for the purposes of environmental. It’s like a puddle and they’d consider 
it a lake.
So we don’t know what we’re doing. So here’s what’s happening. We’re g
oing to make our country so great again. We’re going to make our country so st
rong again.
Our military is going to be so amazing. We’re never going to have to use it.
Don’t forget, I didn’t want to go into Iraq. All these guys think that I’m
 a tough guy so I’m going to be so quick with the trigger. I’m not going to 
be quick.
I was the slowest with the trigger. I didn’t want the trigger.
Now, when Obama left though, he shouldn’t have left the way he did. He gave a 
certain date, and the enemy said, "It can’t be possible. Nobody would be that 
stupid. Nobody."
So I actually don’t think it’d hurt that much because I don’t think the en
emy would ever believe that anybody would be stupid enough to give a date – "W
e’re leaving on this date." And then he left. They said, "He was serious!" The
y pulled back. They pulled back. Then you see what happened. They pulled back th
en they went in with fury.
But how about the 50 soldiers. He sent a couple of months ago, a few months ago,
 he sent 50 of our finest and instead of just sending them quietly, quietly send
ing them. What does he do? He sends them in and he makes a big press conference 
or announcement that "We are sending 50 soldiers in Iraq, Syria" and these soldi
ers have a big target on their backs.
Why can’t we just keep our mouths shut? Why can’t we be unpredictable? Unpre
dictable? Right? Why can’t we be unpredictable?
Why does he have to tell – first of all, it doesn’t even sound good when you
 say "50 soldiers" because it sounds like so small. People would say, "Is that g
ood or bad?" I mean, that sounds small.
But then when you think about it, why do we have to say that?
These are extraordinary people. These are our finest. And they’re, you know, v
ery dangerous missions. Why would you tell people that we’re sending them in? 
You just keep quiet and let them accomplish something.


They are right now – who knows what’s happened to them? But right now, they 
have a big target on their back.
People that we’ve let go of at Gitmo have now killed Americans. You’ve seen 
that. You saw that yesterday. That came out yesterday. We let people go out of G
itmo and they kill Americans. Okay. Is anybody surprised at that though? Would a
nybody be surprised?
And we’re keeping it open. Now they’re spending, you know, hundreds of milli
ons to run it. I guarantee you could run it a lot cheaper. You’d have a lot of
 money left over.
So we’re going to get efficiency in government. But we’re going to end Obama
care. We’re going to replace it with something so much better and so much less
 expensive.
We’re going to get rid of Common Core. We’re going to bring our education lo
cal.
We are going to preserve our Second Amendment. It’s under siege. It’s totall
y under siege.
And Christianity is under siege. I’ll tell you, Christianity is under siege.
You take a look. I’m with the – I’ll tell you what. I’ve been with so ma
ny pastors lately and Jerry Falwell Jr. was an example – was telling me that 
 first of all, he told me something that "You remind me so much of my father."
 I thought his father was a great guy. What his father did with Liberty College 
and Liberty University. And Jerry to top it off has taken it to a whole new plac
e.
But when Jerry was so strong and so great.
But I was talking to – I probably had 50 of the ministers and pastors, differe
nt folks came up to my office, and they’re really under tremendous pressure be
cause they don’t want to have their tax exempt status taken away. This happene
d during the Lyndon Johnson presidency.
And I said, "Why is it that you folks are pushed around so much?" Christianity. 
These are the pastors. These are strong people. These are really strong people. 
"Why do you allow that? Why aren’t you more forceful?"
And finally, somebody said, "Well, we have to be a little careful of our tax exe
mpt status."
I said when did that happen exactly? It was during the Johnson.
Well, we’re going to try to get rid of that. Okay? Because that’s really ter
rible.
We’re going to try getting rid of – and I’ve said that to a lot of evangel
icals, a lot of great Christians. We’re going to try to get rid of it because 
it sort of means somebody walking down the street has more power than somebody o
f religion, of our religion, of Christianity, somebody that’s an evangelical.
You take anybody they have more power because these people are powerless.
They’ve actually taken their right of free speech away.
So I said we’re going to try to get rid of that and I think we’ll be very, v
ery successful.
You know, it’s interesting. I said how many Christians are there? Because you 
know, we’ve got men, we’ve got women. You cut it in half, we’ve actually h
ave a few more women. But we are far more Christians than we have men or women. 
So in a way, it’s the most powerful lobbyist – the biggest group of people.
But they’re not allowed to talk because they’re petrified.
You saw what was happening with the IRS and what was taking place with regard to
 certain groups.
So we are going to try and usually when I say try that means I’m going to get 
it done. That means I’m going to get it done.
But we are going to try very hard. We are going to get that brought back and I t
hink it’s going to be very hard to counter it.
Because if the Christians, and if the whole evangelical Christian sector gets to
gether, nobody, nobody can beat –
You know, when I made the statement about banning Muslims on a temporary basis, 
I took such heat.
Now people are saying, "You know, Trump is sort of right about that." Now they
re all going, "Wow" because they see what’s happening.
And I think if I would have said it about Christians, I think I would have had l
ess opposition. That’s what’s happened in this country. That’s what’s ha
ppened in our country.
And we can’t let it happen. We’re going to turn this country around and we
re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the dummies anymore.
We’re not going to be where China made last year trade deficits $505 billion. 
Japan over $100 billion. Mexico $58 billion.
We’re going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall. Okay?
...Recently, I was in Florida and Marco, who’s a nice guy actually. You notice
 how nice they are after you’ve defeated them?
I like everybody I defeat.
But when I ran against Marco, it was supposed to be...well, he started it. Right
? Just like Cruz started the last deal. He started it.
But Marco came after me very viciously. You know he wanted to be Don Rickles, ri
ght? And it didn’t work.
But what happened is I won by 20 points – almost 20 points – and a lot of th
ese issue we were talking about it was big issues. And frankly, I wish I would h
ave left about two days earlier. I wanted to stay in Florida campaign. I wish I 
would have devoted two more days to Ohio because I almost won in Ohio. I would h
ave won in Ohio but I didn’t want to take a chance leaving my beautiful Florid
a because I love Florida and I wanted to win that.


So if I would have left a couple of days early, I think I would have won Florida
 the same.
But I’m not going to have anything happen in Wisconsin. We have to win.
If we – look, we have to put these politicians in their place, folks. It’s t
ime.
And believe me, you know, Cruz likes to pretend he’s an outsider and in the me
antime he gets all the establishment support, including your governor.
So believe me, believe me, they’re all establishment.
And frankly in a way it’s worse because Cruz is establishment and yet he’s g
ot no relationship with the establishment.
He goes and he stands on the floor of the Senate for a day and a half and he fil
ibusters, and these Senators – look, I know. They’re tough cookies. I have t
he best – I have one of the great people – Sen. Jeff Sessions, who’s great
.
Nobody better than Jeff.
And you know, Cruz thought he was going to have him and used him in his speech 
 "Sen. Jeff Sessions" – and then he comes out and he endorses me.
But when you think of it, look, out of all of these Senators, he has one support
er – Lee – who’s his friend. I mean, he’s his friend. And by the way too
k him plenty time to do it.
But you know, to stand there and to rant and rave for two days to show people yo
u can filibuster, in the meantime, nothing was accomplished.
Cruz has not accomplished one thing.
So he’s an insider but it’s almost like the man on the street because he can
’t get anything done.
He dislikes people. He calls people like for instance he said horrible things ab
out the Speaker and you know about the Speaker and he said about separately Mitc
h McConnell.
I mean, he said some terrible things about – how do you get things done when y
ou’re calling Mitch McConnell bad names. Okay? Let’s just say bad names.
So he’s sort of got the worst of all elements. He’s an insider totally but h
e can get nothing done. Okay? He can get nothing done.
Your new Speaker – how do you like Paul Ryan? How do you like him?
Wow. I was told be nice to Paul Ryan because – really?
Well, he’s the Speaker. He’s a nice guy. He called me the other day. He was 
very nice.
But I’m very surprised at this statement. Wow. Are you all Republicans? Are yo
u mostly conservatives?
...I always say I’m just a common sense conservative. And so, so important –
 common sense.
And somebody told me today that somebody else – I think, Walker – used my te
rm.
You know, Walker used – I said, "Make America great again." I said, "Make Amer
ica great again", and I copyrighted the term.
And then Walker was making a speech many months ago when he first started and he
 was saying "Make America great again" because he saw the response that I got. T
he difference is he didn’t get any response. So then no.
But we told him he can’t do that. That was the first real problem I had with h
im...
Now, I said a common sense conservative and today I heard he used the term becau
se the press was up and they interviewed me and they said he said he’s a commo
n sense conservative.
Well, I coined the phrase a few months ago. That’s what I am. I am a conservat
ive.
I’m very, very conservative on the military. I’m very conservative with our 
vets and on health care and on lots of things.
But – and I’m actually very conservative on trade but a lot of people would 
say "He’s not that conservative on trade because he doesn’t believe in free 
trade." Well, actually I do believe in free trade. But it’s got to be good tra
de for us, right? It’s got to be smart trade.
It can’t be where Wisconsin is losing thousands and thousands of jobs where yo
u folks can’t get into China but China comes in here like it’s Swiss cheese.
 That’s what happens.
You know, China does not obey the rules.
Now, I get along great with China. I made a fortune dealing with China. I have t
wo buildings because of China. Big ones in New York and one in San Francisco –
 Bank of America – that I have in partnership with a great company. And it’s
 because of China. I sell – I have one of the big leases with one of their big
 banks – with the biggest bank in the world actually from China.
I sell millions of millions of condos to people from China. I like China.
I’m not angry China. I like them. I think their leaders are doing a great job 
for them.
But our leaders are doing a bad job for us.
Same with Mexico. I get along great. The Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. I love
 the Hispanics. But their leaders are killing us on the border and they’re kil
ling us on trade.
And I’m not angry at them. I’m angry at our country and our leadership becau
se it’s grossly incompetent and we’re going to change it around and we’re 
going to get the best and we’re going to get the finest.


...So whatever you can do to spread the world, I’ll be around. I’m going to 
Green Bay. I love their team, by the way. You talk about a great franchise. No, 
I love it.
And you have a truly great quarterback. I don’t know. He’s probably endorsin
g somebody else but I don’t care. He’s still a great quarterback.
Tom Brady’s a friend of mine. He said you have a great quarterback. That’s a
ll right with me. When Tom says he’s a great quarterback that’s pretty good.
But you know, I really want to win Wisconsin because if we could win Wisconsin, 
we’re going to put all of this stupidity away.
We’re going to put these stupid, stupid people that allow and I’m talking ab
out basically politicians, and in many cases, you know a lot of times people wil
l see deals that are done and I mean take a look at the Iran deal. How bad is th
at I mean, just as a deal...
But many times people will say deals that the country makes, and they’ll say, 
"How can our politicians be so stupid?" They’re not stupid. They’re being hi
t by the lobbyists and the special interests and they make a fortune. Okay? They
 get tremendous campaign contributions. They’re not stupid. They’re doing it
 for themselves.
So again, I’m not doing that. I’m doing for you. I’m working for you.
But just remember, they’re not so stupid like you think.
But when you look at the people funding Cruz’s campaign and Kasich’s campaig
n, and you look – don’t forget – Cruz said, "Oh the banks, the banks." You
 know, he’s going to be Robin Hood. He’s going to be this great guy.
And then in her personal financial disclosure form, he forgot to mention that he
 borrowed about a million dollars from the banks – Citibank and Goldman Sachs.
 He borrowed a million dollars at an interest rate that everybody in this room w
ould be proud to have – a very low interest rate. Almost no interest. He forgo
t to announce it on his personal financial disclosure form. He just forgot. He s
aid, "Oh, I forgot. I forgot."
Okay? So then he hits the banks. He’s controlled by these people, folks. Okay?
 I mean, what he did was absolutely wrong. But they’re controlled by these peo
ple.
I’m controlled by you. I’m going to do the right thing for you. Okay? So rem
ember that.
...
Q&A






22 veterans a day commit suicide. That’s correct.






We’re going to take care of our veterans so much. Look, let me tell you, they 
– many of them kill themselves waiting for a doctor. They can’t even get to 
see the doctor. You know that. They end up killing themselves before they see th
e doctor.
22 a day and a lot of people don’t even believe that number. They think it’s
 almost like an impossible number – how can it be so bad? – and it actually 
could be even worse than that.
We are going to take care of them. From their standpoint, they wait, they wait, 
then they get bad service, then they wait some more – six, seven, eight days.
And sometimes they’ll see the doctor and the doctor says, "I can’t see you n
ow. I’m going on vacation."
You see the corruptness.
I just left Phoenix – 21,000 people. Sheriff Joe was there. The job he did was
 incredible. Incredible.
You know they had a little protest. Right? That protest ended so quickly. He arr
ested three people; everyone else scattered.
You know, and you have that kind of a Sheriff here. You have a tough cookie here
. I can tell you. I just met him and I can tell you.
But you know I have a great policy plan and I’ve gotten a lot of credit for it
 and it’s on DonaldJTrump.com. And with the veterans when they’re waiting fo
r exorbitant time – even for a little time – they’re going to go to the do
ctor. They’re going to go to local doctors or local hospitals.
Many of the hospitals are dying for business. You know that they’re dying. Som
e of these hospitals are dying. They’re going to get immediate treatment, imme
diate service, we’re going to pay the bills, and we’re going to save a fortu
ne, and they’re going to get great service.
And everybody is in love with it. Everybody loves it. And that’s what’s goin
g to happen. So we’re going to take care of our veterans.
If we can’t take care of our veterans, we can’t take care of anyone. So we
re going to take care of our vets.






Boy, do you look good though. You look good and tough. I wouldn’t want to figh
t you.
Do you think I can take you in a fight? I don’t think so.
How about we do it right now? That would be great for television...
Go ahead.






...Let me tell you this. Our veterans are taken worse care of than illegal immig
rants who come in our country...You don’t even have to write it down. We’re 
going to do things about it.
You know what you’re saying? I’ve heard this so many times before with the d
aycare and everything else. We are going to take care of our vets.






By the ways, speaking of increase, Cruz and Kasich want to destroy your Social S
ecurity, folks, okay?
I want to bring money back into this country. I want to bring jobs into this cou
ntry. I want to bring tremendous wealth into this country. I want to take our we
alth back from China, from Mexico, from all of these countries that have our wea
lth. They’ve taken them like we’re a bunch of babies.
And we’re going to save your Social Security and we’re going to save your Me
dicare. They want to get rid of it. Okay? Remember that.
...
I want to use not too many executive orders folks. You know, because executive o
rders came about more recently. Nobody ever heard of an executive order.
Then all of a sudden Obama, because he couldn’t get anybody to agree with him 
and he start signing them like they’re butter.
So I want to do away with executive orders for the most part.
But look, just do me a favor. Stick with me. You’re going to be okay. All righ
t?
...I know, what you’ve said I’ve heard a hundred times and daycare is a huge
 problem. Huge problem. And your wife not working? Huge problem – she can’t.
 So anyway, I bet you have a great wife. Good wife? Better believe it.






...We’re ending Common Core. You’re not going to be educated – your kids i
n Wisconsin are no longer going to be educated in Washington, D.C. by bureaucrat
s – many of whom – I can’t say all – but many of whom don’t care for y
our kids. They couldn’t care less. They get big, fat salaries. Your kids are g
oing to be educated locally.
We’re terminating Common Core, and you will see something that’s magic. And 
I’ve seen it where parents and all of these people – the uncles, the aunts 
 they’re all on the school boards. They get professionals. They have great p
rincipals.
You can’t see what’s going on from Washington, D.C. Many of the people never
 even come here. They sit behind their desk in Washington. They draw big salarie
s. And they’re telling you how to educate their kids. Not going to happen that
 way.
And I’ve even seen it where they keep graduates – the child graduates and th
ose parents stay on. They love it because their child went through the system. T
hey love it and they become so good at it. That’s what’s going to happen.
We’re one of the worst in the world in education. We’re going to be one of t
he better ones. Not necessarily – you know, I don’t know that we’re going 
to beat Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and China. But we’re going to come very close
.






Discipline in schools. I don’t think that Wisconsin should have a big problem 
with discipline. You have a big problem with discipline?
...Well, we have to get discipline back in the country, forget about school. We 
have to get discipline –
I mean, I have a case. I have a wonderful guy – campaign manager. You talk abo
ut discipline. And you probably saw what happened today with my campaign manager
. He’s a good guy. Corey [Lewandowski].
And by the way, the easiest thing – "Corey, you’re fired." I can’t do that
. Can’t do it.
So fortunately, I have a taping system. You know, very – I’m rich so I have 
tapes all over.
So this young woman who complained, was all – she was talking about being mayb
e thrown to the floor and all this. I said, "Oh, that’s horrible." And then we
 saw the tapes.
Did anybody see the tape? What did you think? Right? Nothing.
Women – what did you think? [Audience response inaudible]...
I mean, she wasn’t like – her face stayed the same.
If somebody squeezed your arm or did something really bad – don’t forget –
 initially she said thrown to the floor. But if somebody squeezed your arm or hu
rt you, wouldn’t you start screaming or something?
Did you see any change in her face? [Audience response inaudible]
...It’s horrible. It’s horrible. Honestly, it’s horrible.
And the best thing I could do is say – but I can’t destroy a man. I’d dest
roy him. Got a beautiful wife and children and I’m not going to destroy a man 
for that.
And you know what? When I saw that at the tape, at first I said, "Oh, this is te
rrible." Then I saw the tape. It’s my tape. I’m the one that had the tape. I
t’s on the ceiling of this incredible club in Jupiter, Florida, and we’re al
l leaving and we have a press conference. Right?
And the press conference lasted a long time. It was like 45 minutes. So that was
 enough.
I’m leaving with a whole big gang of people. People pushing left and right, le
ft and right.
And all of a sudden, she bolts into the picture. She grabs me or hits me on the 
arm. In fact, I’m like this with my arm up and then he goes by and maybe he to
uched her a little bit. But I didn’t – it was almost like he was trying to k
eep her off me. Right?
[Audience response inaudible]
Like he was helping her. And did you see her fall to the ground?
[Audience response inaudible]
Okay, because she talked about falling to – now after, I must tell you, her st
atement changed big league because she said go to the ground. You know, all this
. I could read it to you. Does anybody want to hear it?
I mean, I want to be accurate because I’d like the press to treat me.
So before she knew she was on tape, she said "I was jolted backwards."
Was she jolted backwards? I mean, if she was, her face stayed the same. I mean.
"I was jolted backwards. Someone grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me me 
down. Campaign managers aren’t supposed to forcefully throw reporters to the g
round, except she never went to the ground. She never even came – flinched.
She didn’t – you know, if somebody grabbed you even one of the guys, even th
e bikers, if somebody grabs even a biker or punches you a little bit, you’re "
Whoa!" Right? I mean, the toughest guy, the toughest woman. Look at her face. It
’s zero.
They’re going to destroy a man’s life?
And then I have Cruz saying, "Oh, that was a terrible thing. That was a terrible
 thing."
Let me tell you something, folks. If I win, if I lose, I didn’t need to do thi
s. I’m doing this because I just had a beautiful grandchild with Ivanka. Ivank
a and Jared – beautiful, beautiful grandchild. It’s my eighth. I’m doing t
his all for them.
I didn’t need to do this. This is not so easy. And I had no idea. You know, ma
ybe none of us did. You know, I had no idea the message was going to get across.
 It’s a message of competence. It really is. It’s a message of common sense 
and it’s a message of competence.
And I had no idea that we’d have millions of more votes than we had when we ha
d that stiff Mitt Romney – a total stiff – who by the way he’s a dope. He
s not a smart person. I’ll tell you right now.
Let me tell you about Mitt Romney. That was an election he should have won and h
e lost. And he should just go away and let the big boys do it now because you kn
ow what? That’s an election that should have been won.
And I’ll tell you what. I helped John McCain and at that time, honestly, that 
was a tough deal for him because the world was sort of collapsing. But he lost.
And I helped Mitt Romney a lot and he lost. And I said, "This time, we’re goin
g to do it ourselves. We’re going to win. We’re going to win." So just remem
ber that.
We’re going to win because of Wisconsin, I hope...








Right! She’s so smart. I don’t want them to know. I don’t want to tell Put
in what I’m thinking. She’s so smart.
What you just said...what about Ukraine? Don’t worry about Ukraine. Ukraine is
 going to be fine. Just don’t ask me why.
You know, this world of politics – "Mr. Trump, you said -" don’t forget I’
m the one that said take the oil. I was right. They didn’t take the oil. You k
now who has the oil right now? ISIS has the oil.
You know, that Libya – ISIS has all that oil from Gaddafi, all of that big oil
 from Gaddafi. He took it. We’re like a bunch of dummies.
Why aren’t we embargoing? Why aren’t we creating a nice big circle so they c
an’t get the oil out? Why aren’t we taking that oil back?
Look, look, look, I’m the one that says though I don’t want to say everythin
g.
If I win, I have a good chance of winning. I’m the frontrunner by a lot. I wan
t to go in there. I want to knock the hell out of ISIS. I don’t want to tell a
ll. I really mean this.
I don’t want to tell everybody in this room – and look at all the cameras th
at are going now – I don’t want to tell the world what I’m going to do bec
ause they’re watching.
Just let me do it folks. I will do it. You would be so happy. You don’t have t
o know the details. Okay? Let me do it.
You know, I used the word before. We have to be a little bit unpredictable. We c
an’t say, "Well, we’re going and attack on March 14th and then we’re going
 to hit them from the front and then we’re going to hit them from the back."
You know, Obama did that eight months ago with one of the cities. He said, "We
re going in next week."
Look, folks, folks, folks, you know, you have to trust – there has to be some 
trust. Right? Do you trust?
We’ve got to stop the stupid. That’s why I really think your question is so 
great – "I don’t want to hear how you’re going to do it, Mr. Trump. Just d
o it." I’ll do it. Okay?
I love that. That woman! That woman! Thank you, honey. Thank you.


Okay. I can see why.
Woman:
Thank you. You have been – I just want to say thank you. You saved me in so ma
ny ways.
In recent years, I’ve been struggling with an incurable illness and I’m on h
ome care now. It’s caused by a doctor’s medical negligence.
And in those dark days fighting – right now all the tubes have been removed an
d I have a Do Not Resuscitate Order and I have a seven-year-old son – in those
 days in the hospital, I received from you a handwritten letter that said, "To t
he bravest woman I know."


I remember that. I remember that. Such a wonderful, beautiful woman. I mean, jus
t an amazing woman.
And are you coming along okay?
Woman:
No, sir. But that’s okay because I’m here right now to thank you in person a
nd that was my biggest dream.
And I wanted to thank you because through you and your organizations, my son who
’s Mexican-American, seven-years-old, through your organization and just being
 able to stand on that stage with you back in 2005 the outpouring of love that c
an from that ultimately provided my son when he graduates high school with a ful
l ride to college.


That’s great. And you know what we’ll do? We’re going to watch him. You’
re going to watch him. We’re going to be watching your boy. Okay? But you’re
 going to be hopefully around. You’re not going to have to have anybody watchi
ng. You’re going to hopefully be around. Those doctors are going to be so wron
g. But we’ll be helping you.
Woman:
So we thank you. God bless you. And just, you know, he’s a Mexican-American, a
nd you because of your efforts have sent him to college. And I have been writing
 letters to him for when I’m in heaven to tell him that what you’ve done for
 him now he has a great responsibility to pay it forward just as you have done f
or us.


That’s so nice. Thank you.
I have to go down and say hello. Is that okay?


...Very sad but I think it’s going to be really a story of hope and something 
that is really great is going to happen out of that. You watch.
But it sort of tells me when I first said this people would say, "Oh, it will co
st a lot." Forgetting about the campaign. That’s peanuts by comparison. You kn
ow, I’ve spent tens of millions of dollars.
But the big thing – I lost certain businesses and I owned the Miss Universe Pa
geant. I bought it very inexpensively many years ago – 15 years ago – and be
cause of the fact that they thought I was against this woman or that one, I had 
a hard time with television.
Now, the good news is I sold it for a wonderful – I was very happy with that. 
But I didn’t want to sell it. But I sold it and I built it to really a great c
ompany. We did a great job with that company – Miss Universe, Miss USA, Miss T
een USA.
But other businesses – I sort of – like the shirts and the ties with Macy’
s. Macy’s was unbelievably disloyal because of illegal immigration and they en
ded the shirts, ties. Who care? I mean, that’s not a big deal.
But I’m doing something – nobody is giving up what I’m giving.
I mean, when Cruz runs, he runs. If he wins, great. If he loses, great. You know
, it’s him. He’s a politician. They just – they run, they win, they lose, 
who knows?
But these guys run for office. That’s all they do.
I’ve always heard that if you’re a very successful person, you can’t run f
or office, especially for president. You just can’t run for president, and I c
an see it. I have so much false press about me. Things that are so false.
You know, I saw the other day on television, there were like 56,000 negative ads
 on me. 56,000.
In fact, in Florida, I own Doral and in Florida we had the tournament there two 
weeks. Adam Scott – the great Adam Scott – the great golfer. He was winning.
 And in between shots, I told you this after the victory speech, in between they
 have commercials and they were all about Trump. Negative, horrible, negative co
mmercials. Mostly false. Mostly. Not all false. But mostly false, I have to be h
onest.
But it came out the other day, I think it said "$68 million, 55,000 negative ads
." Negative ads.
And when I was running in Florida, I said "How is it possible to win?" I mean, w
ith all of this because I knew it. You couldn’t turn on in Florida where I was
 you couldn’t turn on the television without seeing Trump commercials. Sometim
es four or five in a row. And they were horrendous. Done by very, very bad peopl
e. Very bad, evil people.
And I said, "How it is possible to win?"
And God helped me. Honestly. Because I won in a landslide. I won by almost 20%.
And now they’re doing it here. Club for Growth. It’s a crooked outfit.
Look, Club for Growth – you ever hear this? Club for Growth – a friend of mi
ne, he’s a conservative guy. He goes would you do me a favor? See Club for Gro
wth. I said, "What’s Club for Growth?" He said, "They want to talk to you." I 
said, "All right. Send them up." He’s a friend. He’s a good guy. And now I
m in politics so I have to see people I wouldn’t normally...
So Club for Growth, they come up to my office. This guy was I think a former Con
gressman. And he tells me a little bit about Club for Growth and I’m falling a
sleep. And then he goes, "$1 million." And I said, "$1 million for what? I don
t even know you. I’ve never met you." I said, "Do me a favor." I’m trying t
o be nice and I said, "Go back and write me a little note if you can." And he wa
s stupid enough to write me a note.
He writes me a letter asking for $1 million. I let him know that I’m not inter
ested. You could be rich. I’d rather take a million and throw it all over this
 room. I’d rather give it to you, to your boy.
...They write me a letter. It’s like extortion. They asked me for a $1 million
. I said no nicely. And then they’re doing ads all over Wisconsin. Club for Gr
owth. They did it all over Florida. Club for Growth. About eminent domain.
By the way, without eminent domain, you wouldn’t have highways, you wouldn’t
 have hospitals, you wouldn’t have bridges. You need eminent domain. If someth
ing’s in your way and you’re building a highway, if you’re producing 7,000
 jobs and you need a little corner of someone’s property, every once in a whil
e.
You know, it’s funny. These guys all want the Keystone Pipeline. Right? Everyo
ne. Conservatives. Conservatives want the Keystone Pipeline. I like the Keystone
 Pipeline too. But they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospe
ctus because without eminent domain, they wouldn’t go 15 feet. They wouldn’t
 be able to build it.
So, they don’t want eminent domain. They do commercials about eminent domain. 
They love the Keystone Pipeline, and the whole Keystone Pipeline is based around
 eminent domain because you’ve got to go from Canada, where Cruz was born, to 
Texas, where he’s representing. Think of it.
This guy – and don’t forget that. Remember what I said. I’m going to win. 
Just remember what I said. I’m going to win. And I thank you...
I’m going to win. But remember this. If for some reason he does, he gets the n
omination, the first thing – remember, I’m a good prognosticator, I’m a go
od predictor – the first thing that’s going to happen is the Democrats are g
oing to sue Ted Cruz. He was born in Canada. He lived there for four years. The 
head of the Harvard Law School, one of the top people in the business in terms o
f Constitution, is saying that, you know, he’s wrong. And we have a bunch of o
ther people that are much stronger than even that.
Remember this. If Cruz gets lucky and wins, and the only way he can get lucky is
 if he doesn’t get – because it’s all establishment. You know, if I go int
o that whole mess of the convention, I’m not the establishment. I don’t take
 their money. I don’t hire their people. I don’t do any of that stuff. Okay?
 So you have a disadvantage.
But if Cruz wins, remember what I said. Just remember. Again, he’s not going t
o win. But if he does, he gets the nomination, within the first few days he will
 be sued by the Democrats that he doesn’t have the right to be president. And 
I think they’re right because he wasn’t born on our soil. He wasn’t born. 
He’s not a natural born citizen. He’s not a natural born citizen.
I don’t like to make a big deal of this but it was just brought up by somebody
. He is not a natural born citizen. So if for some reason he should get the nomi
nation, I really believe you’re wasting your time and boy do we have a problem
 because you’re going to have somebody that’s going to be sued, probably wil
l lose the lawsuit.
Again, he was born there, lived there for four years, mother was there, the whol
e thing for a long period of time, and he was a Canadian citizen joint with U.S.
 until 14 or 15 months ago. Did anyone know that? So he was a senator from Texas
, only because of the great Sarah Palin by the way, without Sarah Palin, he coul
d have never won that election. It was a fluke. But he was a Senator from Texas.
 He lived – he was a joint citizen. Now, he finally gave up his citizenship to
 Canada like 16 months ago. He said, "Oh, I didn’t know I was a citizen of Can
ada also." Just like he didn’t know that Goldman Sachs and Citibank gave him m
oney. I mean, this guy is – you just have to study him, folks.
Look, again, I’m doing this. We’re going to win. We’re going to turn this 
country around. We’re going to make America great again. We’re going to win 
a lot. But you have to know the facts.
I love you all. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank
 you. Get out there and vote! Thank you!




Thank you. Thank you! Thank you very much everybody. This was an amazing evening
. This was a great evening.
They just announced North Carolina.
I don’t know if they’ve even announced Illinois yet but we’re leading by a
 lot so I think they’re going to announce it.
Florida was so amazing.
And I want to thank our friends. Northern Marianas Islands have been so incredib
le, and we picked up nine delegates this morning. I heard very early in the morn
ing – nine delegates. That’s a lot.
And I just wanted to thank the governor, Ralph Torres, great guy, Chairman [Jame
s] Ada who was a fantastic man and that was a very nice start to the day. That I
 can tell you.
Many things have been happening over the last short period of time.
CNN was very nice. They came up with a poll. The poll said 49% to 14% and 15%.
We just had one from the Economist just came out – 53%.
And it was sort of interesting because I was watching the news a little while ag
o and one of the commentators, who I’m not particularly fond of but these are 
minor details, said "But Donald Trump doesn’t get over 50%" because I’m at 4
3%, 45%.
Actually now according to the Economist, I’m at 53%.
And I have to explain to these people they don’t understand basic physics, bas
ic mathematics, basic whatever you want to call it. When I don’t get over 50%,
 we have four people. Right? We have four people. Do you understand that?
So when I get 53% – and this one is an example, I had 53% and that’s with fo
ur people. That’s an achievement just mathematically when you can get over 50%
.
So someday, someday they’re going to understand, someday when we take it all, 
they’ll understand. But it is really ridiculous.
I want to thank my family. My boy, Eric and Don. They’ve been working so hard.
Ivanka and Jared have been amazing. Ivanka’s home right now. In about two minu
tes, I’ll call her. She’s about to have a baby so I don’t know. We’ve be
en thinking about that now for a little while but Ivanka has been so helpful and
 Jared has been amazing and it’s been just great.
I want to thank Barron for putting up with the fact that I never see him anymore
. And I want to thank Barron. I never see my Barron and it’s his birthday on S
unday so we’re very happy about that.
So it’s a little tough. You know, we’re going away and he goes, "When are yo
u going to be come home, daddy? When are you coming home?" I said, "Well, in abo
ut two and a half weeks." It’s been pretty tough.


You’re traveling all over the place. It’s really amazing. Yesterday I went u
p to Ohio. I went up to Youngstown.
We had an incredible crowd and just amazing people in this country. We have so, 
so many great people.
We will someday in the not so distant future if I win – otherwise it’s not g
oing to happen I have to be honest with you. But Apple and all of these great co
mpanies will be making their product in the United States, not in China, Vietnam
 and all of –
And we’re not going to be losing our companies. You know, our companies are le
aving our country rapidly, rapidly, whether it’s Carrier air conditioning, whe
ther it’s Ford, whether it’s Eaton.
I was in Cleveland and Eaton Corp. they’re leaving and so many companies are l
eaving. And frankly, I’m disgusted with it and I’m tired of seeing it and th
ere’s no reason for it. It’s just gross incompetence at the highest level. W
e should not allow it to happen. Pfizer, great company, pharmaceutical company, 
they’re going to Ireland.
And there’s so many more. You have corporate inversions. You have people who c
an’t get their money back into the country because the politicians can’t get
 along. They can’t make a deal.
Everybody agrees – Democrat and Republican – everybody agrees the money shou
ld come back...trillion dollars outside of this country. Everybody agrees that t
he money should be here and the politicians for three years haven’t been able 
to make a deal.
And we could make a deal. There’s an example of something that you could do if
 I sat down with a few of the senators, a few of the congressmen, you could make
 a deal on that in 10 minutes if you know what you’re doing because everybody 
wants to do it.
And companies are actually leaving our country to get their money, not only beca
use our taxes are too high, which we’re going to lower by the way. But compani
es are leaving our country in order to go and get money that’s their money bec
ause there’s no way of bringing it in.
So, we’ve got a long way to go. But I think at some point it’s going to get 
done. This has been very exciting, this whole process.
We started, I was one of 17 people – senators, governors. I’ve had such grea
t support. Dr. Ben Carson the other day endorsed us. Great guy. Great guy. Wonde
rful man. And Chris Christie endorsed us. That was so incredible.
And today Pam Bondi came up and endorsed us. She was great. She is a truly wonde
rful woman, of the job she’s done in Florida is incredible.
You know, so many – we’ve had such incredible support. Paul Ryan called me t
he other day – tremendous call. I spoke with Mitch McConnell today. We had a g
reat conversation.
The fact is we have to bring our party together. We have to bring it together.
We have something happening that actually makes the Republican Party probably th
e biggest political story anywhere in the world. Everybody’s writing about it 
all over Europe, all over the world they’re talking about it.
Millions of people are coming in to vote. This was an example of it today. Many,
 many more people. I’m looking at the polling booths. I’m looking at the dif
ferent polling booths all around the country where it’s up. And the lines are 
four, five, six blocks long. And the woman – one woman was there for 40 years.
 She’s been working the polls. And she said, "We’d have two people here. We
d have three people. Now look at the line." And the line looked like it was, y
ou know, long. It was really long. Five deep and long. And it’s just a differe
nt thing.
We have a great opportunity and the people that are voting are Democrats are com
ing in, Independents are coming in, and very, very importantly, people that neve
r voted before. It’s an incredible thing.


I want to pay my respects by the way to Todd Palin, Sarah’s husband. Sarah was
 here. She was incredible. She was making a speech on my behalf and fantastic an
d everybody loves her. And what happened is he was in a very bad accident. He’
s tough as nails. He’s going to be fine. But I just wanted to pay my respects 
by the way to Todd.
So, our theme when we started and Melania and I came down. Yeah, sit down everyb
ody. Please. I mean, this is Mar-a-Lago. We give you seats. You don’t have to 
stand. I’m looking at all these people.
Cory, good job, Cory. Good job. And Hope and our whole squad. Right?
So when this began, Melania and I and I said, "Got to do it." And she was so sup
portive and she’s been so supportive. It’s been amazing. And we have to do i
t.
We came down the escalator and it was about trade and it was about borders. And 
what happened is pretty quickly after that and we were – we shot right up. I s
hot right to the top of the polls and have been leading in the polls almost from
 the beginning without fail.
We went up in June. Most people said I’ll never run. He’s just going to have
 fun. He’s having a good time. This isn’t necessarily – I mean, I’m havi
ng a good time. You know, I’m having a very nice time. But you know what? I’
m working very hard and there is great anger. Believe me. There is great anger.
One of the broadcasters was saying, "Is there anger?" And I said...I was suppose
d to say, "No, there’s not. We love the way things are working. We love the de
al you made with Iran. It’s wonderful. You give them $150 billion. We get noth
ing. We love all the deals. The trade deals are wonderful. You lose $500 billion
 a year with China. We lose $58 billion a year in terms of imbalance. It’s a t
otal imbalance."
We don’t make good deals anymore. We don’t win anymore. As a country, we don
’t win anymore.
And they asked, "Is there anger from your people?" ...They’re not angry people
 but they want to see the country properly run. They want to see borders. They w
ant to see good health care. They want to see things properly taken care of. The
y want our military rebuilt. Our military is in a very bad state. They want it r
ebuilt. Very, very importantly, and they want the Second Amendment by the way pr
otected and protected strongly and that’s going to happen.
And you know what they want so badly? They want our veterans taken care of. Our 
veterans are treated so badly.


So, we started and something happened called Paris. Paris happened and Paris was
 a disaster. That was – there have been many disasters. But it was Paris.
And then we had a case in Los Angeles where it was in California where the 14 yo
ung people were killed. And it just goes on and on and on.
And what happened with me is this whole run took on a whole new meaning, not jus
t borders, not just good trade deals. We’re going to make the best trade deals
 you’ve ever seen.
We’ve got such endorsements from Carl Icahn and the smartest people in busines
s. And these people are going to be negotiating our deals and they’re the best
 in the world. We have the best business people in the world. We’re going to h
ave such great deals. We’re going to do so good with trade. We’re going to d
o so good on the border.
But it took on a whole new meaning, and the meaning was very simple. We need pro
tection in our country and that’s going to happen and all of a sudden the poll
 numbers shot up. And I’m just very proud to be a part of this.
I think we’re going to go. We’re going to go on a lot of trips over the next
 month but I think we’re going to have a great victory.
And I think more importantly than anything else we are going to start winning ag
ain. This country is going to start winning again. We don’t win anymore.
We don’t win with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We’re going to knock t
he hell out of them.
We don’t win at trade – China, everybody, Japan, Mexico, Vietnam, India, nam
e the country. Anybody we deal, anybody we do business with beats us. We don’t
 win at trade. We’re going to win at trade. We’re going to make our country 
rich again. We’re going to make our country great again. And we need the rich 
in order to make the great, I’m sorry to tell you.
So, I’m going forward. We had a fantastic evening. I would have never thought 
this could have happened. I guess we’re waiting for one result which possibly 
will be very successful also.
But to win the states that we’ve won and to win by the margins and especially,
 look, this is my second home, Florida. To win by that kind of a number is incre
dible. It’s record-setting.


And I have to say that number one, I want to congratulate Marco Rubio on having 
run a really tough campaign. He’s tough. He’s smart. And he’s got a great 
future. He’s got a great future.
But I have to say and nobody has ever, ever in the history of politics received 
the kind of negative advertising that I have. Record, record, record. By the way
, mostly false. I wouldn’t say 100% but about 90%. Mostly false, vicious, horr
ible.
They said it was $18 million the first week, meaning last week, and $25 million.
 It added up to over $40 million.
And you explain it to me because I can’t – my numbers went up. I don’t und
erstand it. Nobody understands it. My numbers went up.
I mean, it’s been an interesting experience. Last week, Adam Scott won at the 
Trump National Doral. Won the big tournament, the world championship of golf. An
d Adam, who’s a great guy – I guess a lot of you folks saw that – but I’
m watching...we have television screens all over. We’re down at this gorgeous 
green at Doral and everything is working beautifully and then a commercial comes
 on. The worst commercial and I’m with these wonderful people from Cadillac an
d all these top executives, and I’m saying, "Look over there! Look! Don’t wa
tch it. Don’t. You don’t want to watch it." I’m saying, "Isn’t the grass
 beautiful? Look! Look! Don’t watch."
And they came in waves one after another after another and it was brutal.
And then Adam comes in. He’s this handsome kid from Australia, one of the grea
test golfers in the world, made an unbelievable shot on the 18th hole to win the
 tournament. He’s a great champion. And we’re giving the award.
And just before we break for a commercial, "We’ll be right back with our great
 champion from Australia, Adam Scott" and here’s the commercial and I said, "N
o!" And it was two of them – two of them. Oh, what a day that was. What a disa
ster. What a disaster. Unbelievable.
So again, I just want to congratulate everybody. This is a really interesting pr
ocess. It’s an amazing process. It’s very tough. But it is – by the end, i
f you get to the end, you can handle a lot of things including pressure because 
there’s nothing like it. Lies, deceit, viciousness, disgusting reporters, horr
ible people. It’s true. Some are nice. Some are nice. Some really disgusting p
eople back there.
And I just want to say we’re going to go forward and we’re going to win. But
 more importantly, we’re going to win for the country. We’re going to win, w
in, win, and we’re not stopping. We’re going to have great victories for our
 country.
Thank you very much everybody! Thank you!


...So it’s so important. You getting out to vote. It’s just so important bec
ause our country has been taken away from us. It’s going so fast.
And you know, you’re talking about Second Amendment because I was asking with 
Randy and a lot of people, I was talking to some of the people before, "What wou
ld you like me to focus on?" and they said, "Just Second Amendment. Second Amend
ment."
Now, the Second Amendment means a lot of other things too...The Second Amendment
 in under siege. You know that. You know that very well.
We lost a great Supreme Court justice and nobody thought this was going to be pa
rt of the equation. And all of a sudden if somebody gets in that’s the wrong p
erson, they’ll take away that Second Amendment so fast your head will spin.
You see Bloomberg is somebody that wants to knock out the Second Amendment. Hill
ary is a disaster on the Second Amendment. No, they want to take it away.
So, it’s just not going to happen. It’s not going to happen.
...But we lost our wonderful justice who was a great man and a great Second Amen
dment person.
I just heard coming up, you know, the Senators. We’ve been very disappointed. 
I’m a Republican. Many of you are Republicans. But we’re not being protected
 whether it’s a budget. You saw the budget that was approved a month ago. It w
as approved by the Republicans. They gave it away. They gave Obama everything.
So Obama wants to put in a Supreme Court judge. He said he wants – he’s goin
g to be a very negative person to guns because that’s the way it is, okay? Bel
ieve me, that will be the way it is. And basically they don’t have the right t
o do that.
But I keep saying, "Well, are the Republicans going to fail or are they going to
 crack? What’s going to happen?" And coming up today, I hear, "Well, there cou
ld be a way of Obama pushing it through." Here we go, right? Here we go.
Same thing you heard with Obamacare. It’s going to be defeated. It’s going t
o be repealed. We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Believe me.
But – I mean, look what’s going on with your premiums. 35%, 45%, 55% up. You
r deductible is so high. I mean, you’ve got to see that truck right there? You
’ve got to get hit by that truck in order to ever use it.
So, I come up and I’m hearing that Obama now who said by the way yesterday, "D
onald Trump will not be the president. He will not be." No, it’s a compliment.
 Look, he’s been perhaps the worst president in the history of the United Stat
es. So it’s a compliment.
But he was all over the place yesterday. Said, "Donald Trump will not be – " I
 think we have maybe a little surprise in store, and we start right here in Sout
h Carolina.


You know, New Hampshire was so amazing. We had a big, big victory in New Hampshi
re. Amazing people.
And then we come down here and I said, "You know, I think we have an ever bigger
 lead over here."
And the people have been incredible no matter where we go to speak. Even this. I
 know that four years ago, you had about 200 people here for the same kind of th
ing for your frontrunner and he’s a good frontrunner, a good guy, and he did w
ell but you had 400 people, 200 people. You have thousands of people here and we
 just appreciate it, and I won’t forget it. Believe me, I’m not going to for
get it. I’m not going to forget it.
So I hear that they’re talking about trying to get a liberal judge and a judge
 that does not like the Second Amendment and a judge that – and this is one of
 many. This is one of many but a judge that doesn’t want to do a number on the
 guns and that doesn’t know how important it is.
We’re just not going to let it happen. Okay? It’s not going happen. And if w
e elected, we know that. But we have 9 months, 10 months to go. We have to have 
the Republicans hold fast because I’m just hearing these little cracks, saying
 "Well, maybe if he appoints somebody, maybe we could get along, maybe." It’s 
not the way it’s supposed to be.
Now, it’s possible that they’ll have their wish because if they win, they’
re going to be having their choice. But if they don’t win, we’re going to st
art really taking back because we have 3 or 4 or 5 maybe Supreme Court judges. T
his was not supposed to be one in question. This was a very sad circumstance tha
t happened with – I mean, really to me it was a very sad circumstance. But now
 we’re going to see what happens.
I will only tell you this. We are doing well. We have a really good chance to wi
n. If we can win in South Carolina, we’re going to go – I mean, we could ver
y well run the table.
I don’t know if you saw – I guess a lot of you have seen actually next week 
in Nevada. It’s going to be phenomenal. The relationship there to the people..
.Bush is 1% in Nevada. This guy – why doesn’t he just give up, just go home?
 Go home. Go home to mom. Got to go home to mommy. You know, Bush is only at 1% 
in Nevada. A couple of them are, you know, at 10%, 11%, or 12%. I’m at like 40
% something – 48%. So I think we’re going to do well.
Then I think we have the SEC. We’re going to have the SEC, which is going to b
e I think amazing.
But really now we’re starting. New Hampshire could not have been better. They 
gave us a tremendous send-off. They really started us on our way.
And we did well in Iowa. I mean, some votes were stolen from Ben Carson, which b
y the way was a disgrace. What Cruz – what this guy Cruz did with Ben Carson w
as an absolute disgrace. What he did was – he stole. It’s theft. And then th
ey come out with a voter violation form, which is a fraud as far as I’m concer
ned. And what he did with that whole thing was a disgrace. So we’re not going 
to let that stuff happen anymore. I mean, we’re not going to let it. We will n
ot let it happen. We’re all watching. You’re all watching. Keep your eyes wi
de open.
These politicians – here’s a guy, he raises the Bible and yet he tells fibs,
 he tells lies, and then he does this stuff to Carson and he does other things. 
Very bad.
So politicians are bad people. Boy, they are bad. Would you believe it?
So we’re not going to let it happen and we’re going to get in there...So Sat
urday. Go out and vote. This is going to be the place that’s really going to m
ake it.
And honestly, I’ve been watching all the pundits. Now, the bad news is they’
re always wrong. They all said I’m not running and I ran. Well, how is he goin
g to do? He’s just doing this for fun. I’m not doing this for fun. Believe m
e, I love this location but I know I can be someplace else. Okay? I could be som
eplace else right now. I could be very happy.
But I’m doing it because you know the expression and I see all the hats in the
 audience – Make America great again. We are going to make America so ... ...
We are going to win again. You know, we don’t win very much. You’re very sma
rt, tough people. You like to win. Right? This guy over here. You like to win. A
nd we don’t win anymore. We used to win. We don’t win anymore. Well, we’re
 going to start winning again. We’re going to start winning again.
So, Second Amendment protected. Common Core. We’re going to end Common Core. W
e’re bringing your education locally. It’s going to be fabulous. I don’t k
now if you know or if you’ve heard me say we have the absolute worst – we sp
end number one in the world on education. Right? Number one per pupil in the wor
ld. There is no second place because we’re so high, so much – you have China
, you have Norway, you have Denmark, you have Sweden. You have these countries a
re the best in terms of education and they’re on the list the best. And the 30
th in the top 30 – we’re number 30th. Okay? We’re number one in costs.


That’s a little bit like what I’m doing. I’m the least spent money. You kn
ow, I’m funding my own campaign. Right? So, I don’t have a lot of the people
 coming to me. You know, the drug companies and all of the – because if you wo
uld see the kind of waste, fraud, and corruption in the United States, a lot of 
it isn’t really waste, fraud, and corruption. It’s the fact that people that
 are running against me and people in the Senate, people in Congress, they have 
tremendous power because they have people giving them unbelievable campaign cont
ributions and they’re special interests and they do what those people want. An
d that’s one of the reasons why our budget is out of whack, the military is ou
t of whack. The military orders equipment they don’t even want and the stuff t
hey do want they don’t get because the company that makes that equipment is li
ke, you know, it’s not politically adept, and companies that really are, they 
make the equipments we don’t want. It’s going to all change because I’m no
t getting any money from all of these people. I don’t give a damn. I mean, we
re going to do the right thing. We’re going to absolutely do the right thing
.
I’ll tell you a little story. So the drug companies. We are the largest purcha
sers of drugs in the world, the United States...which makes a lot of sense I gue
ss. But we purchase more drugs that make you better, drugs that make you better,
 not the kind of drugs that come over the southern border, which we’re going t
o end. Okay? We’re going to build a wall. Yup. Folks, by the way, we’re goin
g to build a wall and who’s going to pay for the wall?
[Audience: "Mexico"]
You better believe it. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion. And t
hese characters come up, these politicians that I’m running against, "You don
t really think Mexico is going to pay for the wall?" I said, "Absolutely, 100%
." They said, "How are you going to get Mexico to pay?" And I don’t want to ge
t into it because they won’t understand it. I mean, they have no concept of bu
siness. They have no – you know, the $150 billion we gave to Iran, these peopl
e have no concept.
We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. Okay? The wall is going to cost
 $12 billion. Maybe less. If I build it, it’ll be taller, better, and less. Ok
ay?
So you think of this. So you think of this. So they said, "How are you going to 
possibly do it?"
They make so much money. Plus we give them subsidy. They make so much money from
 the United States it’s going to be one of the easiest things.
And I don’t know if you’ve heard, one of the presidents or ex-presidents of 
Mexico held a news conference. He said, "We will never ever, ever pay for the wa
ll." And the press called me. They said, "They said they will never pay for the 
wall." I said, "Who was it?" Calderon. He’s very nice, good guy. I said, "Tell
 him the following. The wall just got 10 feet higher." I mean it. It got 10 feet
 higher. Yeah, they’re going to pay for it.
And I get along great with Mexico. The problem is – I mean, they buy apartment
s. I have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of workers are Hispanics who 
I’m doing great with. We have such an amazing relationship with Hispanics and 
they’re great people.
The problem is the leaders of Mexico are too smart for our leaders. They’re to
o smart. They’re too cunning.
You look at what’s going on. It’s unbelievable. The border is a disaster. It
’s a sieve. People flow over. It’s not going to happen anymore, folks. Peopl
e can come into our country but they’re going to come in legally. They’re go
ing to come in through a process. They’re going to come in, they’re going to
 come in legally.
So with trade, we’re going to solve the trade problem. I don’t know if you s
aw Carrier air conditioner announced two days ago they’re moving to Mexico. Na
bisco. They’re moving their big plant from Chicago to Mexico. Ford, they’re 
moving this massive complex – they’re building a $2.5 billion plant and now 
they’ve just announced they’re building it bigger.
I’ve been talking about this for two years. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal
, they announced they’re building it bigger. In another words, they’re doubl
ing down. You know why? Nobody does anything about it. I’m going to do somethi
ng about it.
So I watched – somebody asked, "What would you do about Carrier?" Because that
 was a sad case. Somebody used their cell phone and they were telling them, "You
’re out of work. You’re out of job. Forget it. It’s over. We’re moving t
o Mexico." Are crying. Grown men that have been there for a long time. Really in
credible people. And they’re crying and they’re devastated and they lost the
ir job and they’ve never had another job and now this plant – this whole thi
ng is moving to Mexico.


And they said, "What would you do?" I said I’ll tell you what I’m going to d
o because you know they talk about free trade. I’m a free trader. But I say oh
 if I put a tax on these characters – these idiots. I mean, they’re like stu
pid. They say "Donald Trump is not a true conservative because he taxes." It’s
 got to be fair stuff, folks. It’s got to be fair. I’m a conservative person
.
Hey, I’m the most conservative on the border. I’m the most conservative with
 the military. Nobody’s tougher than me. I’m the most conservative. We are g
oing to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful, nobody’s ever going 
to mess with us, folks. We won’t have to use it.
I’m the most conservative on taking care of the vets. Our vets are treated hor
ribly. We’re going to take care of our – I’m the most conservative on Comm
on Core. We’re ending Common Core – I told you that – and we’re moving i
t locally. And nobody is more conservative and we call toughness but nobody is m
ore conservative on the Second Amendment. So all of these things.
But with Carrier...they’re coming across and they’re going to build a plant 
and probably get some subsidies from Mexico – probably – we’ve probably gi
ven them subsidies. They probably have the United States giving subsidies to mov
e out of the country. That’s how stupid it is and that’s how stupid we’re 
running...They said, "What would you do?" I say it’s very easy. We call them. 
We say let’s have a meeting. Here’s the story folks. You’re moving to Mexi
co. Congratulations. But if you don’t stay in the United States you’re going
 to have a problem. But here’s what you do it. You want to move to Mexico, bui
ld your factory, it’s going to be wonderful. Hire your people they’re not fr
om the United States. All those people are now looking for jobs. Those are good 
jobs. You know we’re hiring a lot of part-timers now...The numbers are totally
 phony. The 5% – totally phony numbers. So I say here’s what we’re going t
o do. Very simple. You build your plant in Mexico. Enjoy yourselves. And you’r
e going to have air conditioners and just have them cross the border and sell th
em to the United States? No, you’re going to pay a 35% tax on every air condit
ioner. It’s true. It’s the only thing you can do.
And you know what? It’s the only thing you can do. There’s nothing else. Bec
ause otherwise how are you going to get them to stop?
And then you have the devaluation with China. The all-time. They’re like grand
 chess masters or grand – I mean these people are the greatest – the greates
t in history. They’re grandmasters of that – devaluation. They devalue their
 currency.
Japan is doing very well too. They’re killing Caterpillar. You know, they’re
 ordering Komatsu tractors now because they’ve devalued – look, you take a l
ook at what’s happened to the Yen and it’s very hard. A friend a mine. He’
s a big excavator. You all know excavators. I love excavators. This guy’s a ve
ry big one. He buys Caterpillar tractors all the time and excavators. He just pu
t in a big order for Komatsu. Not that he wanted to. He said, "Donald, they made
 it impossible for me not to buy. They’ve devalued the yen to such an extent 
 Japan – that it made it, I mean, I owe it to my family, to my company, to m
yself. I have no choice." And he was like depressed. He wanted to buy Caterpilla
r...
Well China is doing that times 100, times 1,000, and what they’re doing is the
 devaluation of their currency makes it impossible for people to compete. We can
’t allow that stuff to happen.
Look, when we send stuff over to China, it doesn’t get in. If it does get in, 
you have to pay a big tax. You know, it’s not supposed to be that way. You kno
w, it’s supposed to be free trade. It’s supposed to be they come we go, back
 and forth. They devalued their currency and on top of it, they make it impossib
le.
I have a friend who’s a great manufacturer. He said it’s virtually impossibl
e to get his goods and he makes better stuff than they do. He can’t get his go
ods into China. When he does get them in, there’s a tax to pay.
I have a friend who actually bought an airplane and he can’t get it into China
 because the tax is so massive. He’s going to sell it now at a big loss. Okay?


And think about Boeing. Okay? Think about Boeing. Boeing is building a plant ove
r here. Boeing just had a big order from China. But China is making them build a
 massive airline facility. Right? Massive. Like bigger than anything you’ve se
en.
Okay, you feel good about Boeing right now. Tell me in five years. Unless I’m 
president. You’ll be fine. Don’t worry about it. But tell me in five years y
ou’re going to feel good about Boeing because I’ll tell you what’s happeni
ng. They are going to build that plant – they’re building it, it’s going t
o be finished soon – they’re going to build that plant, they’re going to d
evalue the hell out of their currency, and all of a sudden you’ll be reading a
 big front page story all over the place that Boeing is going to leave, right, S
outh Carolina, they’re going to make all their planes in China. Because this i
s what they do. That’s what they do. And our leaders aren’t smart enough to 
stop it, okay?
I have Carl Icahn endorse me. Great businessman, very rich guy, very, very succe
ssful. If I told Carl, Carl, watch over China trade, we’re going to be in grea
t shape.
We have right now people that have no concept of what they’re doing. They have
 no concept of what they’re doing. They’re political hacks. That’s what th
ey are. They’re political hacks and these are the people that are negotiating 
with these people China. And again, China likewise, I get along great with China
. Largest bank in the world my tenant. They buy condos for tens of millions of d
ollars. I have the Bank of America building in California. I own a big chunk of 
that. I got that through China through a very complex set of transactions but th
rough China.
I mean, I think China is terrific. I’m not angry at China. I’m angry at our 
leaders for not being able to compete with China. I’m not angry.
So we’re going to get things changed around. We’re going to use our best peo
ple. We’re going to be so smart, and we’re going to start winning again. We
re going to have strong borders. We’re going to have strong military. We’r
e going to take care of our vets. We’re going to have such great trade deals. 
We’re going to win again. We’re going to win again. We’re going to win so 
much.
And you know, and by the way, we are going to get rid of ISIS and we’re going 
to get rid of them fast.
I was against the war in Iraq from the beginning. I was against the war in Iraq.
 We shouldn’t have done it. We did it. Then Obama got out the wrong way. We sh
ouldn’t have done Iraq. We did it. It destabilized the Middle East. Exactly. I
f you go back, you could see 2003, 2004, I said it’s going to totally destabil
ize the Middle East because you had Iran and Iraq and they were the same militar
ily. They’d fight, fight, fight. Boom. Then they’d rest. Then they’d fight
, fight, fight for years and years and years. We decapitated Iraq and now Iran i
s taking over. Not only do they get the $150 billion. Maybe the worst transactio
n I’ve ever seen negotiated. No, no, don’t buy the famous Obama administrati
on.
The worst, one of the dumbest deals I’ve ever seen. I mean, we get nothing. We
 get nothing.
We should have gotten those hostages before we started even negotiating. Not now
. We should have gotten them years ago.
But if you look at what’s going on and now on top of that we gave them Iraq be
cause Iran is now taking over Iraq. It’s just taking them over.


So here’s what we did. We spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded 
warriors who we all love all over the place. They’re the best people. Most inc
redible. They’re tougher than all of us these people. I mean, what they’ve g
one through. So the wounded warriors all over the place. You know what we have? 
We have nothing. We have nothing. We have absolutely nothing. So here’s what w
e’re going to do. We’re going to change things around. We’re going to be s
mart. And we have – we’ll do what we have to do in terms of ISIS and all. Bu
t we have to start rebuilding our country.
We have $4 trillion in the various places. $4 trillion. Not going to happen anym
ore.
We’re going to have a strong military. But we’re going to have to rebuild ou
r roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.
I mean, our country is like a third world country. You go over to Qatar, you go 
over to some of these places in the Middle East. You go to China. You see the ai
rports. You see the bridges. They have bridges that are so incredible you’ve n
ever seen anything like it. They have railroad trains that go 350 miles an hour 
and we have things that go chug, chug, chug, chug like from 100 years ago.
We’ve become like a third world nation because we’re fighting everybody else
’s battles. And remember this, we are like the policemen of the world but we d
on’t get paid anything. We protect Germany. We protect Japan. Do you know that
 in Japan if we get attacked, we have a treaty with Japan, if we get attacked th
ey don’t have to do anything. If they get attacked, we have World War III, we 
have to protect them. Okay? I mean, who makes these deals?
We protect as an example South Korea, who have a maniac right next to them. Righ
t? But we protect South Korea. So every time we order televisions, they come fro
m South Korea, they make a fortune. We protect South Korea. Let me tell you some
thing. Why aren’t they paying? They pay peanuts for what we do.
Every time this guy, you know, raises his head, we see our ships start to sail, 
our soldiers get ready. We have 28,000 soldiers at the border.
So we take care of the world. We don’t get it.
Saudi Arabia, before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. $1 bi
llion a day. And we rent space there so we can help them. We rent military bases
. We pay rent. And yet without us they wouldn’t last for two weeks. They’d b
e gone.
So we’re going to change all that stuff folks. I mean, I want to be good. We w
ant to be fair. We want to have heart. And we’re not going to let these Syrian
 folks in that we don’t know who they are. We don’t know where they come fro
m. They’re not coming into this country. They’re not coming in.
I mean, there are a lot of them. I don’t know if you know it. You have a lot o
f them moving into South Carolina. I don’t know. Have you heard this? And you 
ought to tell your governor don’t let them move to South Carolina. You don’t
 want them in South Carolina.
And I know they’ll say, "Well, we have nothing to do. We’re state government
." Let me tell you something. If a governor from a state didn’t want to have t
hem, I don’t care what it says, you don’t have to have them...
We want to help them with safe zones. We want to get the Gulf States to pay. I d
on’t want to pay. We owe $19 trillion. We owe enough. We can lead it but let t
he Gulf States – they have so much money they don’t know what to do with it.
 Let them build safe zones.
Look at what’s happening in Germany. It’s a mess. Look at Sweden. Look at Br
ussels. I mean, Brussels, you go there 20 years ago, 15 years ago it was incredi
ble.
So when I call for moratoriums and I call for this, first I get hit with tremend
ous heat. Right? Then everybody starts to say, "You know, he’s right."
Same thing – on June 16th, I announced we’ve got to stop illegal immigration
. The heat I took was unbelievable. Three, four weeks later they’re all saying
, you know, Trump is right. Then Kate killed in San Francisco, beautiful Kate, b
y an illegal immigrant. You have Jamiel in Los Angeles killed. Incredible guy. Y
oung man. The father’s a friend of mine – a great guy. You had the veteran 
 65-year-old woman – a veteran raped, sodomized, and killed in Los Angeles b
y an illegal immigrant. We’ve got to stop it folks. We’ve got to stop it. We
’ve got to be smart. We’ve got to be a country again. We’ve got to be a co
untry again.
So I just want to thank – this endorsement meant so much to me from these two 
guys and from the whole community. I just want to say get out and vote. We’re 
going to do something you’re going to be so happy with. We’re going to win s
o much and we’re going to make America great again. That’s what we want to d
o. Make America great again. So Saturday, get out and vote. Thank you! We love y
ou all. Thank you very much! Thank you. Thank you very much folks.


I don’t really think – look, what happened is we had 17 candidates originall
y. I was expected to come in like anywhere maybe 10, 11, 12, 13. I ended up comi
ng in second. Didn’t devote tremendous time to it. Didn’t devote tremendous 
money to it.
In fact, I guess in terms of money per vote, I’m about at the bottom, meaning 
the most efficient.
I came in second. I came into strong second. Third, I think, was quite a bit awa
y – I think 2,500 or something – close to 3,000 votes away. There’s a big 
difference between second and third.
I think we did really well. You know, as far as that’s concerned.
I think the press – some of the press said I did fantastically well. Some of t
he press doesn’t want to give it credit.
I think we did very well. I didn’t expect to do so well. I guess what did happ
en is one poll came out and said I’m 4 or 5 points ahead and that maybe build 
up a false expectation for some people.
But it had taken me back to June 16th. I was told "Don’t even go to Iowa. Star
t right here in New Hampshire. Just don’t waste your – "
...I’m going to Iowa. I went. I bonded with the people, bonded with evangelica
ls. We did really fantastically and came very close to winning. I mean, we came 
very close to winning. We came in second place.
So I am very happy with what happened in Iowa. You know, you had 17 people and I
 was second. Now, I guess you have 11 people and I was second. And I think we di
d a very good job.


No, I don’t think I feel any pressure. I mean, we’re going to just do what I
 have to do. And if it works out, that’s great. And if it doesn’t, that’s 
okay too because you know I’m here to do one thing – the theme – make Amer
ica great again. I’m going to do it.
And I think we did very well – I think we did really well in just about everyt
hing we’ve done running for office. I think we have a very good result yesterd
ay. It could have been a little bit better. It could have been one notch better.
But it’s interesting all of these governors and senators that you have way dow
n the list, they’re at 1%, 2%, you know, in terms of what happened – what ju
st happened – they’re at 1%, they’re at 2%, they’re 3%. Nobody ever talk
s about them. And I’m at 24% or 25%, and they say, "Oh, couldn’t you have do
ne better?"
You know, I think the result was quite good especially for the amount of time I 
spent and for the amount of money I spent.






Well, I think I have – I think it fits me better, probably suits me better. I
ve done very well in New Hampshire. I’ve been here a lot more. I have very g
ood relationships with the people of New Hampshire.
But I’ve had very good relationships with pretty much everybody.






I really don’t. I really don’t see that happening. I don’t know what’s g
oing to happen. You don’t – nobody does. We’ll see what – you’ll have 
many, many people that aren’t doing very well. I am doing very well. But you h
ave many, many people that are here, that are well-known politicians – they’
re governors and they’re senators – but they’re not doing very well. And t
hey just came back from a, you know, very major defeat yesterday. And mine wasn
t.
...You know, it’s very interesting. If you look at the numbers from yesterday,
 I got the highest number in history outside the one number – in the history o
f the primary.






...Also, I guess they had 185,000 people, which is 45,000 or 50,000 people more 
than they ever had.






No, I mean, I think we’ll get a lot of Sanders’s voters. You know, they’re
 very much into the trade world and I’m the best on trade. He mentions it but 
I don’t think he’s going to be capable of doing anything about it.
No, I think we’re going to do really well here. I look forward to it.






We have a lot of events scheduled, yes.






Well, we do. We have one commitment long-term for Arkansas actually where we’r
e going to have about 10,000 people. But we’re going to be back and forth very
 quickly. We’re going to have a lot of events scheduled, yes.






Well, I just think, you know, I’m just happy with the way we’re doing. You k
now, we’ve bonded with the people whether it’s there or here. I mean, there
s just a big bonding process going on.
If you look at South Carolina, it’s the same thing. I mean, we’re doing real
ly well there. But we’ve devoted much more time here and South Carolina –






It’s not a question of learning. I mean, I just want to continue to do well...
Our theme – the theme is so important. It’s just make America great again. T
hat’s what we’re going to do. That’s what we’re going to do. Not really 
a question of learning.


Well, if you look at the second place, people didn’t talk about my second plac
e. They didn’t talk about it as positively as they should have. And yet, with 
Marco who was more than 2,000 votes behind me – that’s a lot of votes by the
 way – they said, "Oh, he’s surging. He’s surging."
So, I don’t know why is the third place person doing well and the second place
 person, who by the way has never run – Scott was mentioning before – "One o
f the amazing things about you, you’ve never run for office before. It’s inc
redible how you did."






My brand’s doing great. Yeah.






No, I think just work. We’re going to work very hard and we have a lot of meet
ings, a lot of talks, a lot of speeches. We’re going to be meeting with a lot 
of people and I think we’re going to do very well.






Well, we’ll be doing some of that but we also have some very big events planne
d like tonight, I think they have 4,000 or 5,000 people and other people were he
re yesterday and they had 200 people. Same venue, same everything. They had 200 
people.
So we have – there’s a good bonding going on.






Well, I enjoyed it.






I have unlimited, I have unlimited – you know, it’s funny. When I look at th
e various people, they said so and so has $20 million. I have unlimited. That’
s not the thing.
The only – you know, I’m a businessperson. I want to spend wisely. And I’m
 probably $40 million under budget because of the fact that frankly I haven’t 
had to spend very much although I guess we just did a recent filing and I would 
be probably having spent now maybe $14 million, $15 million.
But I’m self-funding. And I must tell you, I don’t know that enough people a
ppreciate it. I’m self-funding anyway whether they appreciate it or not. So I 
won’t be influenced by the lobbies and you know et cetera, et cetera.
But I don’t know – I was talking to Scott about this before – I don’t kn
ow it’s really appreciated by the voters. I’m the only one on both sides tha
t’s self funding. I’m putting up my own money. And I don’t know that the v
oters appreciate it. When they go into vote, I don’t think they say "I’m goi
ng to vote for Trump because he’s self-funding and he’s not going to be infl
uenced by lobbies and special interests et cetera."






I’m going to tell them and I tell them. But sometimes they like it but I don
t think it’s something they vote for, which is a shame because it’s actuall
y a very big thing. You understand that. It’s a very big thing. It’s a very 
big element if you could have somebody that can actually self-fund and not be in
fluenced by bad decisions...or looking for themselves or looking for the company
 or country they represent. That’s a real positive...
I just don’t know whether or not the voters appreciate it.






I’ve learned that they’re great people. I really, I thought the people in Io
wa were fantastic...You know, obviously I was second. I had the largest vote get
ting in the history of a Republican primary except for one and I brought many of
 those extra people in. And they also had as you know the largest turnout in the
 history of Republican primaries in terms of Iowa by far – not even close. I t
hink it was like 50,000 or 60,000 more than they’ve ever had before. So I just
 – I learned that they are terrific people in Iowa.


Yeah, I look forward to it.






...No, I don’t think so. I have a very good relationship with Marco. I like hi
m... I don’t see that necessarily.






You’re talking about Iowa? Well, that could have been with the debate. I think
 it could have been the debate. I think some people were disappointed that I did
n’t go in the debate.
If I had to do it again, I would have done the exact same thing. And the reason 
is – you know why? Because I raised $6 million for the vets in one hour.
So if I took a second place instead of a first place and could give the vets $6 
million, I’ll do that all day long.






Well, we’re going to be spending money. We’re going to be spending money –
 we’re going to be spending a lot of money. We’ll be spending money on ads a
nd we’ll be spending money on the ground game.






I can’t help it, honey, whether I’m celebrity. I mean, this is me.






Look, I think most people say I did a great job in Iowa. I came in second. I spe
nt far less than anybody else. And had I known that I was going to be liked as m
uch as I am in Iowa and people did like me – you will understand that – I wo
uld have maybe spent a little bit more and I would have been there a little bit 
more and maybe I would have won it. But, you know, I’m very happy with it. I h
ave 7 delegates right at the top.
You look at other people in all fairness – senators, governors – they’re, 
you know, they’re way down.
When I have 25% or 26% and they have 1% but you people don’t mention that.






But the one thing is you people don’t mention that. You don’t mention all th
e other names.
Now, you mention the person, Marco, good guy. But he came in third. And they mak
e it sound like he had a victory and I didn’t. But I came in second.
...I started off on 17th. I was 17th. When I first started, I had nothing. And t
hen I inched my way up – went pretty rapidly actually. And now I’m leading e
verything and I did okay in Iowa. Pretty good in Iowa.


Well, I think we’re going to have great success here. I think it’s a much di
fferent kind of a process. This isn’t a caucusing process. This is a much diff
erent – this is a normal voting process. The Iowa is a much different kind of 
a thing.






Well, he [referring to Ted Cruz] insulted me. I mean, he started with the insult
s, as you know. And he insulted Ben Carson by doing what he did to Ben Carson. T
hat was a disgrace. And he insulted the people of Iowa by doing a voter violatio
n form that nobody’s ever seen before which was disgraceful. No, no, he’s a 
man of insult.






No, I’m going. I have thousands of people going. No, but we don’t have that 
invite. I like Mike Huckabee but no, I don’t think he’s even going to be the
re.






I did. I did. No, I like him. Well, he’s left the race so I feel pretty good a
bout that. He’s a good man.






Well, we’re adding some and we’re adding them pretty rapidly.






...People in your world are saying they possibly could. So I don’t really see 
one or two. I see there could be a number.






I’d love to finish first. You know, again it would still not be horrible becau
se you’re competing against a lot of very talented people that have been polit
icians all their lives. I have been a politician for 6 months.
No, but I’d love to finish first.






Wouldn’t horrible but you know it wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world. 
I could think of worse things. But I’d like to finish first. I think we will f
inish first. I’d like to finish first.






...Just so you understand. I am totally self-funding my campaign other than smal
l donations because people send in small donations for $10, $15, $20...






No, no, that’s merchandise sales. That’s a lot of merchandise sales.






It’s a small amount of money compared to what I put in.






It’s very hard when somebody sends you a check for $17.50 and $9 and $200, ver
y hard to send that back.






I am. And I always make the reference. I always make a reference to that and I d
o it every time.






Well, he’s [referring to Scott Brown] somebody that I respect, always liked. A
nd he’s very, very respected throughout the country but he’s very respected 
here. And everybody wanted his endorsement and I’m very honored that he’s gi
ving it to me and he’s going to give it to me on the stage.






That happens with endorsements. No, that happens with endorsement. It’s pretty
 common with endorsements.






...A poll came out a few days before that said I was about 5 points so maybe the
re was a tinge.
And again, it may have been the debate, which would have set records if I did it
. So I would have liked that. But the fact is it could have been the debate. May
be it is. Maybe it isn’t. But I would have done it exactly the same way becaus
e I raised, Scott, we raised in one hour, I raised $6 million for the vets. And 
I would never, ever give that up to go between first and second in Iowa. Wouldn
t be worth it.






I think her email situation is very serious. I have a feeling she’s being prot
ected by the Democrats because it just looks to me to be more serious than anybo
dy that I’ve seen including Gen. Petraeus.
If you watch and study and read about various lawyers – you know, that’s wha
t they do – they really feel she’s in grave danger and what she’s done is 
against the law not just against rules. It’s against the law. I just don’t k
now what’s going to happen because I don’t know whether or not the Democrats
 are going to protect her.






I never saw a race where they’re flipping coins. I mean, they’re flipping co
ins. What kind of a race is that? It’s ridiculous. I thought it was terrible. 
I mean, you call it a tie. But to flip coins, they say "Okay, you’re going to 
get this district. We’re going to flip a coin."






I don’t know. I can’t tell you yet. I think he’s [referring to Ted Cruz] c
ertainly was dirty what he did to Ben Carson was terrible. He did the voter viol
ation form. I thought that was terrible. Actually, I thought it was terrible. An
d when they said that Ben Carson was out of the race and come vote for him, I th
ought that was terrible.
Okay?
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.


Wow, what a crowd. Thank you very much everybody. Such an honor. With the snow c
oming down and it’s a little cold outside and you have hundreds of people stil
l outside trying to get in. But you know, we won’t wait. We’ll go ahead. Rig
ht?
We’ll go ahead.
First of all, congratulations to the Iowa State basketball team. You had a – w
hat was that all about? I turned on the game. I said, "Wow, this shouldn’t be 
that good of a game." And at the end of the game, I said, "Who won?" Yes? That w
as great and it’s a great achievement.
I also want to pay my respects to Ben Carson. They had a really bad accident. So
me of his staffers were hurt really bad. So I just want to pay my respects to Be
n. He’s a good guy – a really good guy – and his staffers and hopefully th
ey get better. Say a prayer for them. Okay?
We’ve had an amazing time today. We’ve been all over Iowa and we’re going 
to be here tomorrow. We’re going to be here so much you’re going to get so s
ick of me. You’re going to say, "Please, tell him to get out of here. Tell him
 to leave. Tell him to go."
But we’ve had an incredible time.
And you know it started really – we’ve had really a pretty good week. The de
bate last week – everybody watched the debate. And who knew about these debate
s? I didn’t know anything about the debates. And it’s been fun and it’s be
en interesting. And I’ve been treated semi-fairly by the moderators. Not 100%.
 Some have been very fair actually, and some have been not so fair.
And you know, a lot of the press hasn’t been very fair.
Boy, look at the press back there. They must think there’s a big event going h
appen today. Wow, that’s a lot of them – it’s like the Academy Awards.
But we’ve had an amazing – it’s been an amazing experience and it started 
really on June 16th when we came down the escalator. We came down that escalator
 and it was – I said, "Let’s go" to my wife, who’s been so supportive and 
so wonderful. I said, "Let’s go. We’re going to make America great again. Th
at’s what we’re going to do."
And you know, it’s hard to do this because when you think of it I’ve never d
one it before. I’ve never been a politician. Thank goodness but I’ve never b
een a politician. I’ve always done jobs and put a lot of people to work. Tens 
of thousands of people over the years.
And you know, I have thousands of Hispanics that love me. The Nevada poll just c
ame out where I’m leading with Hispanics, which I knew, I knew.
And we came out at that particular opening when I opened and said I’m going to
 run for president I gave up a lot. You know, gave up a lot of different things 
including telling our friends at NBC no more Apprentice. That’s hard to do. Yo
u have a top show and you say, "I’m not doing it anymore. I’m sorry." They w
anted to do it so badly.
And Steve Burke, who’s a fantastic executive, came up to my office and said "C
ome on, Donald. Come on. Do it. You’re not going to run. Do it. Do it." I said
, "Steve, I’m going to run." I was pretty sure. You know, that was about two m
onths before. I was pretty sure. It really is a tough thing to do.
You know, all my life I’ve heard "If you’re a very successful person, you’
ll never run for president. You’ll never really run for politics. But you’ll
 never ever run for president."
And I built a great company and it’s a tremendous number. You saw the filings.
 The press was going to look so closely. It was like D-Day when we put those pap
ers in.
You know, first thing I did I announced. They said, "Oh, he’s actually going t
o do it" because most of them said "He’ll never do it."
Then when I signed...that’s when you sign your life away. And I signed that. T
hey said, "Whoa! He signed that. Well, he’ll never file his financials because
 maybe he’s not as rich as everybody thinks."


And I filed the financials and they saw an unbelievable – you didn’t hear a 
thing about it. Oh boy, were they looking. I mean, were they looking. And almost
 100 pages. The biggest report ever filed with the FEC in terms of that. And it 
showed a company that’s a phenomenal company with some of the great assets, ve
ry little debt, tremendous cash flow. You know, the way it’s supposed to be. A
nd it’s great.
And the reason I tell you that is because that is the kind of thinking we need n
ow in the United States. We need that kind of thinking. We need that – whateve
r it is. We need a mentality that’s going to – you know, we’re at $19 tril
lion in debt. It’s going to be up to $21 trillion. You saw that horrible budge
t. Horrible, horrible budget that was approved two weeks ago and that’s going 
to lift it.
And so we went along and a lot of things have happened and then the polls came o
ut which I love and new ones came out today and I’ll tell you right now. You k
now, now that we’re at it. And they came out some brand new ones – some beau
ties. And one’s coming out – I guess a big one’s coming out. I don’t kno
w exactly what it is but it’s got to be pretty good because I see the response
.
I mean, even this with all the people still trying to come into this building. S
omebody said it’s a barn. This is a very nice barn actually. But with all of t
he people still trying to come in, you see what it is.
And we do have something special in a couple of minutes. To me, it’s really sp
ecial because it’s a person that I think is a spectacular person. So it’s ve
ry special to me.
But then the polls came out and some of them – as an example – national poll
s 38% for Trump, 20% for second. I wouldn’t even names. Right? I won’t even 
mention names. I’m going to be non-confrontational today for a change.
21% for the second. 11%. And then they’re all down. Some of them are actually 
at 0% and 1%. I don’t know.
Jeb – well, you know, Jeb’s got one problem. He loves Common Core, meaning h
e wants your kids educated from Washington, which is immediately no good.
And his second problem is he’s very weak on illegal immigration. Remember, he 
said they come as an act of love. I said, "What? They come as an act of love?"
So I think those are two very bad points frankly.


...So South Carolina just came out and that’s 32% for Trump, 18% for second, 1
1% for third. Great.
Florida leading by a lot – 31%, 19%, 13%, and then all down in the dumps.
Georgia just came out. I have 33%.
Yeah, don’t forget that’s 33%. Hard to believe. That’s with 14 people, 15 
people. I don’t know when they took it but it was recent. 33%.
Connecticut – now, Tom Brady loves me and that’s sort of like, you know, and
 I love Tom Brady by the way. 35% to 18% to 9% to 2%. You know, to nothing.
Maryland just came out. Maryland – great place – 32% to 15% to 11% to 9% and
 then you know they sort of phase out.
You ever hear of a place called Iowa? Oh, I love this. We’re doing actually gr
eat. First of all, I have to tell you. You know, they never report it. Even CNN 
doesn’t report it. CNN does a poll, probably spent millions, they never report
 their poll.
The CNN poll was 33% for Trump, 20% for Chris. Nobody talks about it. Nobody tal
ks about it. They don’t talk about it. They talk about – CNN is reporting ot
her people’s polls. So, I call up. I say, "Wait a minute. You’re CNN. You sp
ent a fortune on polls and you don’t report your own polls because I’m winni
ng by a lot." And they have no excuse but they keep reporting other polls. But w
e’re doing well. I think we’re doing a lot better than anyone knows.
Gravis just came out – 34% for Trump, 28% for Cruz. PPP 28% for Trump, 26% for
 Cruz. In other words, it’s a little close here. Quinnipiac poll – very resp
ected 31% for Trump, 29% for Cruz. And then again CNN 33% to 20%.
So we’re – I think we’re doing good. I think we’re actually doing better
 than the polls.
Now, I could do this. I could say, "Well, I just want to do well in Iowa." I wan
t to win Iowa, folks. Because look, I love the people. The evangelicals have bee
n phenomenal. I’m doing great with the evangelicals but nationwide I’m winni
ng with evangelical – I don’t know if you know that – by a lot nationwide.
With Iowa, I’m doing really well with the evangelicals. We’re doing really w
ell with the Tea Party. We’re doing well – I mean, you hear the numbers. I m
ean, these are the numbers.
But I actually think we’re doing even better than the polls. And you know, the
re’s the thing that a lot of people said, you know, they call up, "Are you goi
ng to vote for Trump? He’s got very, very tough immigration policies. He wants
 to destroy Obamacare and replace it with something a lot better." I’m going t
o do that. Okay?
But you know, a lot of people, they’ll pick up the phone and they’ll hear di
fferent things and they’ll say, "Uh, no I’ll vote for – " and then they’
d get in the booth and they say, "Trump is my man." There are a lot of people sa
ying that we’re going to do a lot better. But we’ll see because Feb. 1st you
 have to get to caucus, you have to go out. You’ve got to do it. Otherwise, we
’ve all wasted our time.
You know, one of the groups in Maine and it was like incredible. We were in diff
erent places up in New England recently and New Hampshire was amazing. And the p
eople are standing there. It was so cold. There was one little group of – desp
ite global warming – you know, you hear about "It was so cold." It was windchi
ll below zero. And people were standing outside for hours trying to get in.
And then you hear the announcers. "Well, will they show up to vote?" And I don
t know much but I say like if people are going to stand out for four hours in t
he cold or the heat because believe me they stood out in the heat during the sum
mer and during the fall like you wouldn’t believe in Tennessee, in Texas where
 we had 21,000 people, no matter where we go we have these big crowds but they
ll stand for hours and hours to get in. Why aren’t they going to go and vote?
 Or in your case caucus? Why aren’t they going to go and vote? It’s sort of 
an amazing thing. So we think they’re going to really be – why would somebod
y wait for hours for four hours and not going to take two minutes to vote?


Now, yours is a little more complicated because the caucus system is a little bi
t different. It’s a very interesting system. But it is different.
Here’s what I have to say about Iowa. It’s very important.
So you know there’s a movement to move Iowa to the back of the pack. Okay? You
 know that. You’ll still see me but you won’t see other people. Believe me. 
I’m loyal. To a fault I’m loyal.
But you’re going to see. I give you my word. I win; they’re not touching Iow
a. This is an amazing tradition. No, seriously. This is an amazing tradition. Th
ey’re not moving Iowa back.
And they’re not moving New Hampshire either because they’re talking about Io
wa, New Hampshire. They’re not touching New Hampshire.
So, we’re going to just keep it the way it is. It really is. It’s an amazing
. First of all, you’re amazing people. But all over the country it’s a movem
ent all over the country. The people are incredible. They want to make America g
reat again. They’re going to do something that’s special.
And you know we used to talk silent majority? I say it’s the noisy majority be
cause it’s actually a noisy majority. It’s not a silent majority.
But people are fed up.
So I started on June 16th and we did well. Practically from the beginning we wen
t up. And if you remember, we started at nothing. You know, we started at nothin
g because nobody believed I was going to [run]. Even when they – my wife said,
 "You know if you run, you’re going to win." I said, "What do you mean?" She s
aid, "People don’t believe you’re going to run." At the polls. I was getting
 these little polls. I felt like some of these guys now that are senators and go
vernors; they get these little polls.
...Jeb again, right? Boy, he’s taking a lot of abuse. You know? I told him "Yo
u know what? You should use the name Bush. What’s wrong? Use the name Bush. I 
mean, maybe it’s not working but it’s better than Jeb right?" You know, I re
ally do. Get rid of the exclamation point and just put Jeb Bush. It’s your nam
e. Don’t be ashamed of your name.
So anyways, I wish him the best.
But, you know, I started and I started at like 2% or 3% and then it went to 6% a
nd then it went to 9%. And each time the pundits – these real geniuses back he
re – some of them are sitting back here – these real geniuses like George Wi
ll with the little glasses – take away the glasses. He looks like a dumb guy, 
I’m telling you.
But each time these geniuses would say, "Well, he’s reached his plateau. He’
s plateaued" at 6%, right? Then it goes to 11%. "Well, you know, this is surpris
ing but he’s reached his plateau." And then it goes to 18%. And then it went t
o 22%, 24%, 28%, then it went to 32%. Then it went actually 42% in the Gravis po
ll and in Reuters we got to 42% and even a little above that. And then all of a 
sudden you didn’t hear so much about the plateau.
I want to plateau at 42%. You know, 42% with like 14 people that’s pretty good
.
But they kept saying, "He’s plateaued. That’s all he’ll get. He’s got th
ese followers."
We have the smartest followers there are. Number one, we have the smartest. And 
the hardest working followers. We have people that love the country more than an
ybody and they want to take back what’s happened because our country is going 
to hell.
We can be nice about it. We can say it nice and soft. Our country is going to he
ll.
When you look at this crazy Iran deal where we’re paying $150 billion and they
 give us the five back but they don’t know where the fifth is and you understa
nd what that means. That’s not a good sign. But they give us five people but t
hey get seven and they get 14 off the Interpol. These are bad dudes. They get 14
 plus seven so they’re getting 21 people. And they have the right to do whatev
er they want from an enterprise standpoint. Right to do oil. Right to do whateve
r they want.


But what do they also get out of that deal? First of all, they’re going to get
 nuclear. They don’t have to develop nuclear missiles. They can buy them. For 
the kind of money we gave them, they’re going to buy them. Why are they going 
to develop?
Remember the deal? 24 days. They have 24 days for inspection period. They also h
ave self-inspection. Right? But we paid $150 billion. And I always say, "Wow. Wh
at a great – the Persians are great negotiators." I say what a great deal that
 is.
...Two weeks ago I started. I said, "Wait a minute. That’s not a good deal com
pared to the other deal." They took over Iraq. We gave them Iraq. We knocked the
 hell out of Iraq. We decimated their armed forces. And you know, for years, the
y would fight. For many, many years, for decades they’d fight, fight, fight. N
obody would win. Fight. They’d rest. Then they’d go back to fight.
And now, we gave them the second largest oil reserves in the world, which is Ira
q. We gave it to them. Now, they’re going into Yemen. And if you look at Yemen
, take a look. They’re going to get Syria. They’re going to get Yemen.
Unless, you know, trust me a lot of good things are going to happen if I get in.
 But let’s just sort of leave it the way it is.
They get Syria. They get Yemen. Now, they didn’t want Yemen. But did you ever 
see the border between Yemen and Saudi Arabia? They want Saudi Arabia.
So, what are they going to have? They’re going to have Iraq. They’re going t
o have Iran. They’re going to have Iraq. They’re going to have Yemen. They
re going to have Syria. They’re going to have everything. They’re going to 
be a monster. We’ve created this. We have stupid leadership. Really stupid lea
dership.
So when I started, I said we have to do something about it. It’s not something
 I wanted to do. It’s something we have to do.
Because I’m representing you. I’m not taking any money. I’m not, you know,
 like some of these guys where they’re getting millions and millions of dollar
s from people I know and they’re nice people and some are very bad people but 
they have no interest in the country. They have interests in their company or th
ey have interests in countries they’re representing.
And these people and these politicians are going to do exactly as they’re told
 by their lobbyists, their special interests, and their donors.
Me, I’m going to do the right thing.
And I always tell the story. When Ford moves to Mexico, I’m going to talk them
 out of it. When Nabisco moves its plant from Chicago to Mexico, I’m going to 
talk them out of it. Believe me. It’s going to be easy. It’s going to be eas
y.
So, I started and I talked about the border. Very strong on immigration and ille
gal immigration. Took a lot of heat. But you wouldn’t even be talking about th
at subject if I didn’t bring it up.
And I talked about again I talked about ISIS and I talked about. But what really
 happened is after Paris we had 130 people killed.
And by the way, I told you Common Core is dead and Second Amendment is right thi
s way. We’re going to protect the Second Amendment. We’re going to protect t
he guns. We’re going to protect your guns.
You know, if in Paris and if in Los Angeles, we had the two maniacs that were ma
rried. She came on a fiancee permit...You know, wonderful fiancee. She was total
ly radicalized. Maybe radicalized him. Maybe he was already that way. But we’v
e got to start thinking. We have to start using our head. Bad stuff is happening
. We have to find out what’s going on.
We have a president who won’t even talk about the term. If you think, he won
t even mention anything to do with what we all know is going on. And you can’
t solve the problem if you don’t talk about it. You have to talk about it.
So, very, very strongly we started talking about that. And then after Paris – 
and by the way, if we had a couple of you and you and you and you, if we had thr
ee or four people in that room in Paris as an example where they have the toughe
st gun laws like in the world. You can’t have a gun unless you’re bad guy, y
ou bought a gun. And they walked in just said "Boom! Boom! Boom! You, move over.
 Boom!" Killed 130, more to follow because there are people that are so badly wo
unded.
But if we had a couple of – few of the people that I pointed out – I could p
lenty in this audience, believe me. But if they had guns on their waist, if they
 had guns around their ankle where the bullets went the opposite direction, it w
ould have been a whole different story, folks. It’d be a whole different story
.


So very, very big on the Second Amendment. But what happened is all of a sudden 
after Paris and to an extent, to a pretty big extent in California, what happene
d is these polls started coming in where everybody liked Trump even more. I went
 up 11 points. I don’t want to do it for that reason.
But it went up because people want strength just like having the family of John 
Wayne, who was great. I love John Wayne. From Iowa. But out of nowhere I got the
 most beautiful letter from his daughter, who you just met, who’s an incredibl
e woman, and she said, "We’d like to endorse you."
John Wayne was a strong guy. We need strength. We need strength in this country 
because we’re withering away with political correctness nonsense. Okay? Nonsen
se.
I mean, if you think of it, you can’t say "Merry Christmas" anymore. We’re g
oing to say "Merry Christmas" again. You go into these department stores. They d
on’t have any Christmas displays. They don’t have the sign "Merry Christmas"
. Even people that aren’t Christian are saying "Merry Christmas. We love Chris
tmas. Let us say ‘Merry Christmas’, Happy Holidays." But people like to see 
it. And stores don’t put it up anymore. We’re withering away. We’re going 
in the wrong direction.
So I said we’re going to do this and I had no idea it was going to work this w
ay. I figured I’d be in the pack and maybe like a race horse. You know, just a
t the end you can sort of inch it out. I had no idea to have 21 point leads nati
onally. We’re up by so much. And you know, I want to keep it that way. I want 
to keep it that way.
When you think – and just one thing before I introduce our incredible person, 
our incredible guest. But one thing – I’ve spent to this point almost nothin
g and I’m in first place by a lot. I tell this story. I’m not bragging about
 spending. I’m just saying I’m telling the story. I have spent – they’ll
 tell you – almost nothing and I’m in first place by some polls have me 21 p
oints. That’s a lot. Okay? You know some people have 2%. I have a lead of 20%.
 But I’m in first place by a lot.
Jeb has spent now $77 million. Think of it.
And you know the reason I bring him up – I wouldn’t even bring him up – bu
t he spends a fortune on ads against me. You people have all seen it before
I got along with everybody. I contributed to everybody. I was a world class busi
nessman. Now I’m a politician, which I’d hate to tell you. But you go with e
verybody. You want to love everybody. You want them all to love you unless you
re stupid. But you want everybody to love you.
Everybody knows this story. But so much money has been spent on me. But he spent
 $79 million. I spend nothing. I’m in first by a lot. He’s down towards the 
bottom of the pack.
And I said to myself, "It’s amazing. Wouldn’t that be great if this were the
 country doing this?"
As an example, education. We’re number 28 in the world. We have third world co
untries that are ahead of us. Education is very important to me.
World, I mean, countries that you wouldn’t believe are ahead of us. You wouldn
’t believe if you heard the names of some of these countries. So we’re 28. B
ut we’re number one in spending per pupil by far.
Wouldn’t it be nice if you had like this election process where we spent the l
east but we had the best education? You know?
So Sweden and Norway and China and others are the best. We’re nowhere near the
m and yet we spend far more per pupil. So we’re going to change that and I tol
d you we’re going to get it localized but we’re going to change that. Watch,
 you just watch...
I will tell you this: You can’t educate your children through bureaucrats in W
ashington. And that’s what happens with Common Core.
When the parents take over and I really mean this because I’ve seen it. When t
he parents surround those schools and they love those kids and they love those p
upils and even when their kids graduate, they are committed to those schools, th
ey’re committed to education. You can do so much better in Iowa than they can 
possibly do telling you what to do in Washington.
And not all of them but most of them are just interested in "Where’s my check?
 How much do I get? Let’s make the process complicated."
And some of the things that your kids are made to study are an outrage. Okay? So
 we’re going to bring that back locally and it’s going to be great.
So what happened essentially is I started looking and all of a sudden things cha
nged. And people are now looking. They know I’ll do great with China. I’m go
ing to do great with Japan. I’m going to do great with Mexico, who’s killing
 us in trade and killing us also at the border.
We will build a wall and you know who’s going to pay for the wall – Mexico. 
They’re going to pay for it because they make a fortune and all of those thing
s.
But now, we’re really focused on security and I’m honored because I will tel
l you that all of polls and the CNN polls where said in particular that Trump is
 just not by a little bit but by many, many percentage points winning on ISIS, w
inning on the military, winning with the vets. We’re going to take care of our
 vets big league, by the way. Big league. Big league. And we’re going to reall
y take care of our military. It’s going to be big and strong and powerful and 
nobody’s going to mess with us and it’s the cheapest thing we can do, I’ll
 tell you that right now.
So it’s been a real focus.
I just want to now say just a couple of words about a very special person. This 
is a person who I’ve known for a long time, who I’ve respected for so long. 
An incredible husband. An incredible family. And somebody that when I heard that
 she was going to endorse me, I was so honored. You have no idea how honored.
And I would like to bring up if I might Gov. Sarah Palin. Special, special perso
n. Thank you.


SPEECH 9
 
(AUDIENCE MEMBERS SHOUTING)


 — let me just tell you — let me just tell you a little secret. It’s the c
heapest thing we can do. We’re never going to have to use it. I don’t think 
we’re going to have to use it. Don’t forget they talk about my tone. I remem
ber when Jeb and Hillary the same day — Mr. Trump’s tone is not nice. They
re chopping off Christians’ heads in Syria and other places and they want me 
to have a nice tone. I’m supposed to be, oh, isn’t life wonderful, OK?


 Look, we’ve got to be tough, we’ve got to be smart, we’ve got to have hea
rt too. We’ve got to have heart, we’ve got to take care of people. We’ve g
ot to fix our health care program. This Obamacare is a disaster. You people know
.






You people know. Obamacare is a total catastrophe. It’s going to be repealed a
nd replaced. It will die in ’17 anyway. I don’t know if you heard what’s h
appening. But it’s so bad, all the people that they didn’t think were signin
g up are signing up.


And the other people that are really paying for it are not signing up. And your 
rates are going up 25 percent, 35 percent, 45 percent. Your deductibles are so h
igh that unless you get hit by a tractor, you’re never going to be able to use
 your deductible. You’re never going to be able to use it. So Obamacare is a d
isaster. We are going to repeal it, we are going to replace it.


There are so many great things we can do on health care. So many good things.


SPEECH 10


Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
We start by paying our great respects to Pearl Harbor.
We don’t want that stuff. We don’t want World Trade Centers. We don’t want
 that ever happen to us again. It’s not going to happen to us again.
So I want to thank everybody for being here. It’s a great honor.
They have thousands of people outside and sometimes they’ll say "Would you lik
e to wait about an hour until they all come in?" But we can’t get them in anyw
ays so what difference there. We all got lucky. We’re together tonight. Thank 
you.
So we have a lot of big news today. To me, very big was CNN just came out with a
 new poll about an hour ago and Iowa – great, great state – and in Iowa, Tru
mp 33%. Beating everybody by a lot. You have Cruz at 20% and Carson at 16% and g
oing down and Rubio at 11% and Bush at 4%. But it’s Trump at 33%. It just came
 out. It’s Iowa – we love Iowa.
By the way, great ship named after Iowa too. I’ve been on that one too. A real
ly great one.
The other big poll that came out just two days ago was the national poll. Trump 
36% and then I won’t even mention the other numbers because they’re so low.
You know, when you have so many people running – we had 17 and then they start
ed to drop. Ding. Bing. I love it. I love it. And you’ll be losing a lot over 
the next little while. I would imagine. I don’t know. When somebody’s down a
t zero I would think that eventually they’ll drop out. The only difference is 
there’s nothing to pick up if there is zero. What do you pick up? So anyways y
ou’ll be seeing that.
One of the things I think that’s so important because to me very important in 
the same poll, which is the big national CNN poll, on the economy – so importa
nt – Trump 55%. Everyone else nothing.
On the budget – I’m really good at these things – economy, budgets. I sort
 of expected this. On the budget, Trump – this is with 15 people remaining –
 Trump 51%. Everyone else bing.
Oh, here’s one that I started and I took a lot of heat. I took a lot of heat. 
Sort of like the one we’re talking about today. I guess you’ve heard a littl
e bit about it. But I’ve taken a lot of heat on this one. Illegal immigration.
 Now, had I not brought that up in Trump Tower in June when I announced that I w
as going to run for president, which takes courage to run for president, believe
 me.
You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that if you’re a successful person, esp
ecially if you have very success – you’ve done a lot of things, a lot of dea
ls, a lot of everything, you can’t run for president.
And yet, that’s the kind of mindset and thinking this country needs.
We’re being run by people that don’t know what they’re doing. Very sad.
On illegal immigration, Trump 48%. That’s with 15 people. Everyone else, no go
od.
On a thing called ISIS…oh, don’t worry. We’ll have plenty – we’ll talk
 a lot about ISIS. Can you believe it?
Here we have generals. They go on television and talk. They do all talk. You peo
ple – a lot of military people here. Who’s military here? All right, I love 
you.
By the way, speaking of it, we’re going to make our military so strong, so pow
erful, so great, nobody’s ever going to mess with us again. Nobody. They’re 
never going to mess with us.




You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing we can do. The cheapest thing. 
Instead of fighting these wars that we don’t know what we’re doing and we ha
ve leaders that are afraid to do anything, we’re going to make it so great, so
 strong that people – gosh, they’re not messing. They’re not messing.
And we’re going to take care of our great vets, our wounded warriors. We’re 
going to take care of them. Because they – thank you, they are not being taken
 care of.
We have illegal immigrants that are taken care of better than our incredible vet
erans and it’s not going to happen any longer. Not going to happen. Not going 
to happen.
So with ISIS – Trump 46%. Can you imagine that? With all of these characters r
unning.
On foreign policy, Trump way up. And you know, in theory you could say "Well, ma
ybe it’s not my thing." But people want to see strong, they want to see streng
th, they want to see protection, they want to be protected. And that’s it.
I watched last night and I watched the president truly that didn’t know what h
e was doing. He didn’t know why he was there. He refuses to use the term "radi
cal Islamic terrorism". He refuses to use the term.
I don’t even know if he knows what the hell is going on. I really don’t.
And then we’re looking at Hillary Clinton. Honestly, I know Hillary. It’s ju
st going to be an extension of Obama. I think maybe worse.
She’s got no strength. She’s got no stamina. Remember that.
You don’t need a president with no strength or stamina when we’re being ripp
ed off on trade, we’re being ripped off on Obamacare, which is going to be rep
ealed and replaced by something really good.
When our soldiers aren’t being taken care of, when our military is never been 
like it is today.
One of the generals was on television, as usual, saying that we’re the least p
repared now than anytime that he’s ever seen it and he’s been there a long t
ime retiring. That’s how we are.
In the most dangerous world we’ve ever had because of the power of weapons, we
 have people that don’t know – they don’t – I’m telling you. I watch t
hem. I watch these generals being interviewed.
Do you think Gen. George Patton would be interviewed?
…They’d be interviewed after total and complete victory.
Gen. Douglas MacArthur. They’re not big for interviews. You know, they shoot f
irst, they talk later.
These guys – and I don’t think we’ll have to.
You know, just so you understand, Bush – Bush, he said yesterday he was being 
interviewed, he said that he was talking about me. He was saying the nicest thin
gs about me. Of course, he says he’ll be elected. He’s at what 3%? Right?
No, but he said some things and I was like – I said "Who says that about an op
ponent? You don’t say those things." You’ll find out what he said. But he sa
id very nice things.
But, if you look at what happens where he is upset with me because he says the t
one – the tone – of Donald Trump is not nice.
And I say it all the time. We have people whose heads are being chopped off in t
he Middle East because they’re Christian and for other reasons. They’re bein
g dumped and drowned in steel cages. And we talk about my tone.
Hillary said the same thing. "Mr. Trump’s tone is not nice."
These people are living in a different planet. Different planet.
And remember what I said about Hillary. We need somebody who’s strong. We need
 somebody with incredible energy but incredible intelligence and all of those th
ings.
You know, I know a lot of tough people but they’re not smart. That’s no good
. They’re easy.
We need tough. We need smart. We need like every character. We are so far behind
 the eight ball in this country.
We owe $19 trillion. The budget they signed two weeks ago is going to make it $2
1 trillion. It’s a – think of it. Trillion. Trillion. Trillion dollars. Who 
the hell ever heard of the word 10 years ago? There was no such word.


We owe $21 trillion in the very near future. We’re really in trouble. We have 
to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to rebuil
d our military.
And yet, we do deals with China where there’s a trade imbalance of over $400 b
illion a year in their favor, by the way, in case you had any question.
Japan – they send their cars by the millions. $70 billion a year imbalance. Th
at’s like a loss.
You look at Mexico. We’re going to build a wall. It will be a real wall. It wi
ll be a real wall. Gonna happen. It’s gonna happen.
The people I’m dealing with – and you know, I really focus on Hillary later 
because I have to get through these 15 people. You know, there’s 15 of us.
I had Perry came at me strong; he went down. I had Gov. Walker, nice guy, he wen
t down. Every guy that attacks me so far they’ve all gone down. We’ve got to
 keep it that way, right?
I mean, Lindsey Graham. He’s at zero. He’s at zero. Zero.
Let me ask you a question. I don’t get Lindsey Graham. I don’t get him…He
s literally at zero. You see him. And he keeps talking. He gets so much televi
sion. I mean, he’s on television all the time and he doesn’t go up. He’s a
t zero, folks.
His ideas are so bad. I’m more militaristic than him. But I know how to win; h
e doesn’t. He just wants to attack everything. He doesn’t know where the hel
l – ra ha.
And he always sits with John McCain. It’s like they’re the Bobbsey twins. Th
ey’re always sitting together. No, it’s true. Do you ever notice? Sometimes 
I want to see him by himself. He’s always sitting with John McCain, who’s fi
ne. I’m not knocking it. But you got to know what to do.
Now me, I was against the war in Iraq. So everyone says, you have the right temp
erament – I have a great temperament. But you’ve got to attack. If you’ve 
got to do something, you’ve got to know what you’re doing.
I said if you attack Iraq and you wipe it out, Iran is going to take over the en
tire Middle East because you’re going to ruin the balance. It was so simple to
 me.
And actually they sent a group from the White House to see me because I got so m
uch publicity, so much publicity that they sent a group from the White House to 
see Mr. Trump. I said, "Fellas, you’re going to have Iran take over the Middle
 East and that’s what’s happening."
And Iran’s going to take over Iraq as sure as you’re sitting there.
And by the way, Iraq, with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world
. We lost of thousands of lives. We have wounded warriors all over the place. $2
 trillion. We have nothing. We got nothing. We have absolutely nothing. And we l
eft.
And we have a president – we shouldn’t have been there but then we shouldn
t have left the way we left.


You know, the funny thing is I look at Democrats and liberals and conservatives 
and Republicans – wouldn’t it be good all of us if we can get together and r
eally make our country great again? Is that what we want to do?
I’ll bet you that if I spoke to that young woman, that quickly I really think 
I can convince her that we’re all in this together, folks. We want to have a s
trong country. Right?
…But you know, if you think about it and you’ll have some that can never be 
satisfied no matter what. They’re just troublemakers, et cetera, et cetera. Bu
t most people aren’t and they believe something. And I have some very smart fr
iends don’t agree with me; they agree with the other side.
But I really believe that if you took it about making America great, we have to 
be strong, we have to be vigilant, and if we’re not vigilant – [interrupted 
by protester] – that was the same person. I’ve got to tell you, so far, the 
security is not doing a great job in here, I’ll tell you that. That was the sa
me person. You can do very nice but why don’t you get her out because honestly
 it’s inappropriate. So security, strengthen yourself up.
See, our country has this kind of security. That’s the problem we have…Treat
 her very nicely please but she should now be taken out. Same person. One person
. It’s one person. They let her out. They gave her a second chance and the sam
e thing happens.
But you would think that everybody we’re all on the same basket that everybody
 every single person – [interrupted by protester]
…So you would think that if we could get together, we’d all be in the same b
oat.
Now, last night we all saw and we witnessed something that I thought was highly 
inappropriate.
In fact, I tweeted "Is that all there is?" about the president’s speech and I 
wrote something today that I think is very, very salient, very important, and pr
obably not politically correct but I don’t care. I don’t care.


You know, we had a situation in California very recently where somebody was maki
ng bombs in an apartment. The mother saw them. The mother didn’t notice anythi
ng wrong. I watched the sister being interviewed. Believe me, in my opinion, she
 was lying like crazy. I watched that interview. "Oh, my brother was such a wond
erful guy. I didn’t know, I didn’t know, I didn’t know."
And I watched the next door neighbor saying, "Oh, well we didn’t report them b
ecause we didn’t want to racially profile or we didn’t want to profile." Giv
e me a break. Give me a break.
We’re like the stupid country in so many different ways. It’s so – can you
 imagine what our great leaders of the past would have said with the kind of cra
p that’s happening with us?
They didn’t want to report them because they thought it was profiling.
Okay, they saw bombs. They saw, you know, the pipe bombs only this wasn’t to b
uild a bathroom. When a bomb is this long, can’t put too many of them together
 for a bathroom, right? And we thought they maybe but we didn’t want to racial
ly profile. Oh, okay, you’re okay, you’re innocent.
Or how about where the families and the girlfriends and the wives and everything
 and they go back to World Trade Center – the worst, worse than Pearl Harbor b
ecause with the World Trade Center they were killing innocent civilians. At leas
t while it was a dirty, rotten sneak attack, at least they were…but while it w
as an attack, at least it was military. But this was an attack on the World Trad
e Center.
So, what’s happened is we’re out of control. We have no idea who’s coming 
into our country. We have no idea if they love us or if they hate us. We have no
 idea if they want to bomb us. We have no idea what’s going on.
And then I looked at poll numbers and I don’t mean polls where I’m winning; 
those numbers I like looking at. These numbers I hated to look at. And it’s ve
ry, very sad.
I’ll go after some of the numbers. 25% of those polled and this was from the C
enter for Security Policy – very highly respected group of people who I know a
ctually.
This is people living in this country. 25% of those polled agreed that violence 
against Americans is justified as Muslims. 25%.
51% of the Muslims living in this country – by the way, I have friends that ar
e Muslims; they’re great people. But they know we have a problem. They know we
 have a real problem. Because something’s going on, and we can’t put up with
 it, folks. We can’t put up with it.
51% – 51% highly respected number of polling groups want to be governed accord
ing to Sharia. You know what Sharia is.
So I wrote this out. The mainstream media wants to surrender the Constitution. T
he mainstream media – these people back here. They’re the worst. They are so
 dishonest. No, no, they’re so dishonest. They are so dishonest.
I mean, I have one from NBC, a reporter from NBC, and actually another one from 
CBS, they actually in Columbus, Ohio, I had a tremendous crowd like 10,000 peopl
e. It was a love fest. It went on for a long time. Everybody stayed right ’tis
 the end. I had one of the politicians – Kasich – who is just getting – he
’s a horrible debater…He made a statement that "Oh, they left after 10 minut
es." Now, the press was there. They saw it. Nobody said it was a lie. It was a t
otal lie. In fact, I had more people at the end than I had at the beginning. Nob
ody’s leaving. Nobody’s leaving here except for the one person that was scre
aming.
So, we asked the press to report that it was a total lie and they didn’t want 
to do that because it’s not their thing to do.
You know, we get the biggest crowds. They don’t want to show this crowd tonigh
t. They’re not going to show all the people outside trying to get in. They don
’t do that. They have the cameras right in my face. I say fan the crowd just t
o show – look at all the people over here. It’s a record in the history of t
his ship. But they don’t show it. They don’t show it. No, no. And I say fan 
it and they never ever fan it. I say fan the crowd and they never fan it. And ye
t, I guarantee you that that young woman that just got taken out after interrupt
ing us three times, I guarantee the cameras will be on her. I guarantee. It’s 
disgusting. Disgusting.
…And by the way, some of the media’s terrific but most of it 70%, 75% is abs
olute dishonest, absolute scum. Remember that. Scum. Scum. They’re totally dis
honest people.


I had one the other day where I finished the speech and they said "Oh, Trump was
 interrupted and he left early." I spoke for like 45, 50 minutes. I then answere
d questions and then I went around, you know, everybody knew it was false.
Amazingly, there’s a media group that calls the media and the next day they di
d the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from NBC. She’s back there.
 Little Katie. She’s back there. What a lie it was. No, what a lie – Katie T
ur – what a lie it was from NBC to have written that. It was a total lie. And 
they did a story where they – I didn’t know they had a group like this where
 they actually criticized the media. And they said it was a total lie. And I lov
ed it. I loved it. I loved it.
And then other people pick it up. You know it’s NBC so somebody picks it up. T
hird rate reporter. Remember that. Third rate. Third rate.
So I said here the mainstream media wants to surrender our Constitution and our 
constitutional rights. And I don’t want that. I want ISIS to surrender. Okay? 
I want ISIS to surrender. Very simple.
It’s very simple. So here’s what happened. It’s been a little controversia
l. It’s been a great day because the poll numbers are through the roof. I like
 that.
But I have more…I wish we could call – is there any way we could call the el
ection tomorrow? Wouldn’t you love that?
Now they’re coming at us in full force. They’re coming – not coming at me.
 They’re coming at all of us. They’re coming at all of us. Because you know,
 we have a noisy majority. They used to call it the quiet majority. People are f
ed up. They’re fed up with incompetence. They’re fed up with stupid leaders.
 They’re fed up with stupid people.
They are fed up with stupid people, where our president makes a deal for Sergean
t Bergdahl, a dirty, rotten, no good traitor who – think of it. They knew he w
as a traitor because a general and a colonel went to see his group. Six people w
ere killed looking for him. Okay? Six people were killed. Young. Unbelievable. I
 watched the parents on television. I’ve seen the parents. But I watched the p
arents on television devastated, will never be the same. They left to try to bri
ng them back. He left. He deserted.
You know, in the old days when we were strong country it would be boom, gone. It
 was called desertion. Now I heard the other day they won’t even do anything t
o him. Can you believe it? They think he’s going to get away with nothing. He
s going to have nothing.
So he left. Oh, they treated him pretty rough though. He got in there, he said, 
"I shouldn’t have done this. This isn’t working out the way I thought."
Anyways, so we get him back and here’s the deal we made. We get a dirty, no go
od traitor. Six people killed…They get five of their greatest killers that the
y’ve been after – after – think of it for six years. In fact, I hear nine 
years.
So they get these – right now have gone – they’re out in the battlefield, 
trying to kill everybody in front of them including you folks, I’d hate to tel
l you.
So we get Bergdahl and they get five of the killers that they’ve wanted for ma
ny years. That’s the way we do it.
The Iran deal. We gave them $150 billion. It’s called amateur night. We gave t
hem $150 billion. 24 days – 24 days – we think there’s something wrong, 24
 days we have to wait but it’s much longer than that because there’s a whole
 process before the clock starts ticking. So it could be forever.
But the best is where they have the right to self-inspect. "Are you doing nuclea
r weapons over there?" "Oh, we’ll inspect tomorrow." "Oh no, we’re not doing
 nuclear weapons."
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. Always have been. And somebody wou
ld say that’s profiling. Trust me, they’re great negotiators.
And Kerry is a horrible negotiator and Obama is a horrible negotiator. Horrible.
 He’s a horrible negotiator. These people are horrible.
I always Obama would be a unifier. I never thought of him as being like a divide
r because I said "You know what? I don’t think he’s going to be a good presi
dent."
I backed McCain; he lost by the way. And you know, I don’t blame McCain for lo
sing because a lot of bad things will happen; it was a tough one. But I backed M
cCain; he lost. I backed Romney; he should have won but he sort of went away on 
vacation or something the last month and he lost. And I said, "This time I’m g
oing to do it myself. We’re not going to lose." We’re not going to lose. We
re not losing.
And the recent Fox poll that just came out has me beating Hillary very easily on
e on one. I love that. That’s so important.


So, we put out a statement today. We watched this. And it’s impossible to watc
h this gross incompetence but I watched last night.
And we put out a statement a little while ago and these people are going crazy

Shall I read you the statement?
Donald J. Trump is calling for – now, you’ve got to listen to this because t
his is pretty heavy stuff and it’s common sense and we have to do it. Remember
 the poll numbers. 25%, 51%. Remember the poll numbers. So remember this. So lis
ten.
Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering
 the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what the
 hell is going on.
We have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice.
According to Pew Research, among others, there is a great hatred toward American
s by large segments of the Muslim population.
Most recently, a poll from Center for Security Policy released data showing 25% 
of those polled agreed that violence against Americans – these are people that
 are here by the way, people that are here – 25% not 1%. By the way, 1% would 
be unacceptable. 1% is unacceptable. 25% of those polled agreed that violence ag
ainst Americans here in the United States is justified as part – think of that
 – as part of the global jihad.
They want to change your religion. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I don
’t think so. Not going to happen.
As part of the global jihad. And 51% of those polled agreed that Muslims in Amer
ica should have the choice of being governed according to Sharia. You know what 
Sharia is. 51%.
Sharia authorizes – now look, this is, I mean, it’s terrible. Sharia authori
zes such atrocities as murders against non-believers who won’t convert, behead
ings, and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to Americans especially wom
en. I mean, you look – especially women. Tough stuff.
And we have a president that won’t even mention the term and you’re talking 
about numbers like this.
Mr. Trump stated without looking at the various polling data, it’s obvious to 
anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension…
Where the hatred comes from and why, we’ll have to determine. We’ll have to 
figure it out. We have to figure it out. We can’t live like this. It’s going
 to get worse and worse. You’re going to have more World Trade Centers. It’s
 going to get worse and worse folks.
We could be politically correct and we can be stupid but it’s going to get wor
se and worse.
Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous thr
eat it poses, our country cannot be the victim of horrendous attacks by people t
hat believe only in jihad.
These are people only believe in jihad. They don’t want our system. They don
t want our system and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. They h
ave no respect for human life.


…So prior to Paris, which was a disaster, which by the way if some of the peop
le in those places where it was slaughter, absolute slaughter, had guns, you wou
ldn’t have had the carnage that you had in Paris. You wouldn’t had that carn
age. If they had guns, you wouldn’t had that carnage.
So important the Second Amendment. We have to preserve it and cherish it. And we
 can’t let these weak leaders diminish it.
If they had guns in Paris, if five people in that room, Paris and France has pro
bably the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world and it was like target practic
e. "Come over here. Boom! Come over here. Boom!" People are sitting by the hundr
eds and many others are going to be dying. They’re sitting in the hospital in 
many cases waiting to die.
Now, the same thing a few days ago in California. No guns. We didn’t have guns
. The bad guys had the guns.
And these young people – and I tell the press you’ve got to stop calling the
m "masterminds" – these are dirty, rotten scums. These aren’t masterminds.
Remember the guy in Paris with the big dirty hat? Remember the guy in Paris – 
the "mastermind". I was watching all the networks. I won’t mention who but som
e of them disgusted me. "The mastermind is on the loose."
And we have kids that are watching the Internet and they want to be masterminds 
and then you wonder why do we lose all these kids – they go over there. They
re young. They’re impressionable. They go over there and they want to join IS
IS.
And we have our anchors – I think I got them mostly stopped. Did you notice th
at? I don’t hear it too much. But they say "the young mastermind". Oh, he’s 
brilliant. Young man, he’s brilliant.
I don’t even he’s got a high IQ…In Paris, I call him the guy with the dirt
y filthy hat. Okay? Not a smart guy. A dummy. Puts people in there – mastermin
d – bing, bing, bing, it’s like shooting everybody. You’ve got to be a mas
termind.
So the press has to be responsible. They’re not being responsible because we
re losing a lot of people because of the Internet.
And we have to do something. We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different
 people that really understand what’s happening. We have to talk to them. Mayb
e in certain areas closing that Internet up in some way.
Somebody will "Oh, freedom of speech, freedom of speech". These are foolish peop
le. We have a lot of foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people.
We’ve got to maybe do something with the Internet because they are recruiting 
by the thousands. They’re leaving our country. And then when they come back, w
e take them back. "Oh, come on back. Where were you?" "I was fighting for ISIS."
 "Oh, come on back. Go home. Enjoy yourself."
When they leave our country and they go to fight for ISIS or any of the other gr
oups, they never come back. They never can come back. They never can come back. 
They can never, ever, ever come back. It’s over.
How about that? And now that they’ve become radicalized, they’re totally rad
icalized.
And how about the woman? She was in Pakistan then Saudi Arabia. She comes in on 
an engagement deal and she radicalized the guy. Probably a guy who couldn’t ge
t women. I don’t know what the hell his problem is. It’s probably the first 
women he’s ever had. I don’t know what was going on. But he became radicaliz
ed quickly. Notice how easy it is? He becomes radicalized and then they go on a 
spree.
Folks, those days are over. Those days are over. We have to be tough. We have to
 be smart. We have to be vigilant.
Yes, we have to look at mosques and we have to respect mosques. But yes, we have
 to look at mosques. We have no choice. We have to see what’s happening becaus
e something is happening in there. Man, there’s anger. There’s anger. And we
 have to know about it. We can’t be these people that are sitting back like in
 the World Trade Center, like so many different things.
We can’t be people that knew what was going on two weeks ago in California, pr
obably for months they knew what was going on and they didn’t want to tell any
body. We can’t be that.
We have to be strong. When we see violations, you have to report those violation
s and quickly. Don’t worry about profiling. I promise I will defend you from p
rofiling. I promise.


So when I started this whole quest – I mean, who knew it was going to turn int
o this? It’s been an amazing thing. No matter where I go, I have tremendous cr
owds, packed crowds, packed.
We went to Dallas – 20,000 people in Dallas. 25,000 people. Mobile, Alabama 
 35,000 people. Here, every time I come to South Carolina, every time I go to N
orth Carolina, every time I go to Iowa, New Hampshire, Virginia, wherever I go 
 Florida – we have crowds that are maxed. The only problem we have is the si
ze of the room – thousands of people outside trying to get in. Usually I do a 
double. I go talk to them for a while, which I wouldn’t say I exactly love doi
ng after the first one.
But there is an unbelievable love in these rooms – all the same. I love you to
o. I love you…Thank you. Thank you. I love you too.
There’s an unbelievable love in all of these places – Oklahoma – 20,000 pe
ople standing in a park on quick notice. There’s an unbelievable love. And the
re’s an unbelievable love of the country. We want to see good things. We don
t want to be bad people. We don’t want to be tough and nasty. We believe in t
he Constitution more than anybody.
But we can’t let people use and abuse our rights. We can’t let people kill u
s. They want to kill us. They want to destroy us. We can’t let it happen. We j
ust can’t let it happen.
And I have a friend who’s a very, very successful man, and I went to one event
 – he came with me. We had 24,000 people. And this guy’s a real tough cookie
. He’s a great financial guy. One of the guys I’d definitely use to negotiat
e with Japan, China. Believe me, you’re going to be in good shape when that ha
ppens. We won’t have these characters.
You know, this whole thing with all of these guys. By the way, I’m the only on
e that’s self-funding my campaign. Everyone else is controlled. Only one. I’
m the only one. Only one.
I’m self-funding my campaign. And these other guys. You know, they’re gettin
g millions and millions of dollars from people I know.
I have one guy came and wanted to give me a lot of money. I said, "Honestly, I c
an’t take it. I don’t want to do." I can’t take it, which is very sort of 
like for me to not take money – my whole life I’ve been taking money. Now I
m sort of like what am I doing? But came in and I said, "So what are you going
 to do? I don’t want your money." And he said, "I got to go someplace else." T
hey’re like gamblers. They’re like gamblers. But I said, "You like me best."
 "I like you best but I’m going to go someplace else." Because they want to be
 part – they want to –
…Let me tell you, who is more than me? I gave millions to these guys. Nobody k
nows the system better than me. I knew it from the other side. Don’t forget, I
 was the fair-haired boy. I was like the establishment. They’d all come to me,
 and I’d give them all money I write checks sometimes to Senators whatever the
 max – bing, bing, bing.
I used to say "Senators, don’t come to my office. Anybody that’s a U.S. Sena
tor that calls me, we’ll send you a campaign contribution."
But you know what? I’ll tell you something. In the end, the people that gives 
these millions of dollars to these horrible, corrupt PACS – they’re corrupt 
– they totally control Bush and Rubio and I won’t say Cruz because he’s be
en very nice to me. Nah, he’s been nice. He’s got to hit me first. Once he h
its me, I promise you. I promise you.
No, I’ve been nice to Christie but he really hit me today. Chris Christie. I m
ean, I don’t know. He’s a friend of mine but he’s not doing well in the po
lls and he really, really hit me today. He hated this and yet he said anybody co
uld come. You’ve got to look at some of the statements from the past. But he r
eally hit me on the whole thing that we have to stop the Muslims until we find o
ut what’s going on.
Does that make sense by the way? Until we find out.
And he talked about – that’s inexperience and you know in other words he has
 experience right?
But that’s the statement of an inexperienced man…About we have to stop peopl
e that want to kill us from coming in. Does that sound like inexperienced?
So Chris, who’s a friend of mine, he hit me hard. And I said I got to hit him 
at least once. So I won’t do this a lot.
Look, here’s the story. The George Washington Bridge. He knew about it.
Hey, how do you have breakfast with people everyday of your lives, they’re clo
sing up the largest bridge in the world, the biggest in the United States, traff
ic flowing during rush hour. People couldn’t get across for 6, 7 hours. Ambula
nces, fire trucks. They’re with him all the time – the people that did it.


They never said, "Hey boss, we’re closing up the George Washington Bridge toni
ght." No, they never said that. They’re talking about the weather, right?
He knew about it. He knew about it. Totally knew about it. He’s a got a very f
riendly group of people over there that they don’t think so. But I don’t kno
w. It’s called life. You’ve got to be smart in life.
I would say there’s less than 1% chance. It could be but I doubt it. He knew a
bout it. They didn’t mention at one of their meetings? I think they had breakf
ast like everyday or every other day. They’d just say, "Chris, tonight we’re
 closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor a certain area is aga
inst you." "Oh, okay." They didn’t mention? Nobody believes that.
Number two. Nine downgrades of the state. Nine downgrades. It’s a disaster. I 
have property over there – the taxes are through – I’ll use an expression 
– coming out of my ears, okay? Tremendous taxes over there. You had nine downg
rades.
You had Christie, you know, so friendly with President Obama during the flood.
I actually called. I said, "Let me ask you. Is he going to vote for Obama?" I th
ought he was going to vote for Obama. I don’t know. I think he possibly did.
And Romney I was very disappointed. One of the reasons I was disappointed was he
 called Christie and had dinner right after the election. If Christie did that t
o me, I would have never spoken to him again. I would have never done it.
So when Chris talks about – when he talks about lack of experience – I built
 this incredible company. I filed papers where everyone said "Wow, that is unbel
ievable." I would have probably filed them even when I didn’t run because I bu
ilt a great, great company. Tremendous cash. Tremendous assets. Tremendous net w
orth. Very little debt. Unbelievable cash flow. And I filed.
Everybody said "Number one, he won’t run." And I ran. I took a deep breath and
 I said, "Let’s go" to my wife and we came down that escalator. Right, the fam
ous escalators. Hopefully in many years that will be a very famous scene because
 we will have turned around our country and that will be a positive note, okay?
But then they said, "Oh, well he announced." So these talking heads – most of 
whom are not even smart people, believe me. Then they’d say well, they went to
 Ivy League college. So did I go to Ivy League college. They went to this. Most 
of them didn’t go to Ivy League colleges by the way but they say they’re bri
lliant. One’s brilliant because he wears glasses, you know? Like Perry. Rememb
er Perry? We don’t like him.
But what happens is they say "Well, he’ll never file form A." That’s basical
ly where you sign your life away. I filed form A.
Then they said, "Well, he’ll never sign his financial statement because maybe 
he’s not as rich as everybody thinks." Then they said, "And if he does, he’l
l ask for many, many delays because you’re entitled to 45 day delays, delays, 
and you can delay it until forever. And they’ll delay it until after the elect
ion."
I said, "No" so I filed it ahead of schedule. And what happened? Remember? They 
went down. They couldn’t believe it. It was much, much, much better than anybo
dy ever envisioned.
I built a great company and the reason – honestly worth billions and billions 
of dollars. Remember that – low debt, great cash flow, and the greatest assets
 – Doral, Trump Tower, the Trump Building, big chunk of the Bank of America bu
ilding in San Francisco, 1290 Ave., land all over, land on the Potomac, land all
 over.
In North Carolina, I have a great piece of property. Trump National Golf Club. S
ome of you know it. Great, right at the best location.
And what happens? What happens? So I filed and everyone said "Oh, I can’t beli
eve it."
Then they said "Well, maybe he won’t do so well with the polls." And you know,
 before I went, people never believed I was going to run. They never thought I w
as going to run.
And I told the story the other night for really the first real time. But my wife
 said to me "You know if you run you will win. Don’t you?" She’s very smart.
I said, "What do you mean?" She said, "If you don’t run, you’re never going 
to poll before. Nobody believes you’re going to run." So if they do polls like
 they did these early polls, they weren’t great before I announced. She said, 
"No, the only way you’re going to get a poll number is you’ve got to announc
e." Nobody believes even though they say, even though they say you’re running,
 it doesn’t matter. Nobody believes you’re running.
So I said, "All right." I’m getting these lousy early numbers and I’m saying
, "I don’t know. I don’t want to run and find out it doesn’t work." I don
t want to be embarrassed like Lindsey Graham and all these guys who have nothi
ng. It’s true. It’s true.
So I said, "All right. Let’s take it."
So we go down on the escalator. You know what I did? You remember I took a deep 
breath because I’m telling you and you know what I’m talking about the press
 down there look like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras. I have nev
er seen anything like it. The entire atrium of Trump Tower was packed with camer
as and press. And I just said, "Let’s go" to my wife.


I took a deep breath and I went down and I talked about lots of things, includin
g illegal immigration.
And illegal immigration was such a big subject. And I’m telling you had I not 
brought it up, it has turned out to be – and I took heat. I took heat like nob
ody has ever taken heat. Rush Limbaugh said "The most incredible incoming that I
’ve ever seen a human being endure". And then he doubled down a week later bec
ause I was right.
And now, illegal immigration is one of the biggest things.
And then you had the killing of Kate [Steinle] and the killing of Jamiel and the
 killing recently in California of a 66-year-old – think of it, 66-year-old 
 veteran, female, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. And many
, many more. It’s a huge problem.
And they take our jobs and a lot of other things.
So all of a sudden, everyone’s saying "Wow"…and from almost at the beginning
, you’ve seen I’ve been at the top like from almost day one.
…The reason I tell you certain things and the reason I talk about what I’ve 
done and lots of good things. A little thing – Wollman ice skating rink. The c
ity couldn’t get it built for high years. They were in there for like $20 mill
ion. They couldn’t get it done. I went to the mayor of New York, I said, "Ed K
och, I’ll get it done real quick." He didn’t like it because he didn’t wan
t to be shown up. I said I’ll do it and if it costs more than $2 million I’l
l pay for it. I got it built for peanuts. Got it done in four months. And we had
 ice skating in Central Park and I still run it.
I did another one – I did a bigger version of that recently Ferry Point out in
 the Bronx. They were having – things have been under construction from anywhe
re between 20 and 30 years. They couldn’t get it done. I got it done under a y
ear. It’s operating now. It’s very successful.
It’s what I do and that’s what we need. That’s what we need in our country
.
I’m building on Pennsylvania Avenue an incredible hotel. One of the great hote
ls of the world. The Old Post Office site. Think of it. I got it in the Obama ad
ministration. Everybody was bidding. Everybody wanted it. One of the most sought
 after projects in the history of the GSA – general services. And I got it. Ca
n you imagine me getting it from the Obama administration? Because the GSA, who 
are really professionals, they want to make sure number one that it got built. S
o they wanted strong financials. And they also wanted a great plan. So we came u
p with Ivanka and my kids we came up with this incredible plan. The job is under
 budget, ahead of schedule. It was going to open up in ’17 – sometime during
 the year ’17. Now, it’s going to open probably in September of ’16 right 
before the election on Pennsylvania Avenue.
And this is the kind of mindset you need.
Carl Icahn, one of the great businessmen, and others have endorsed me.
We have trillions and trillions of dollars offshore. Pfizer’s leaving the Unit
ed States.
In the old days, somebody would leave for, frankly, South Carolina. They’d lea
ve New York or Florida or someplace where the taxes are lower. They’d leave fo
r North Carolina. They’d leave – today they’d leave this country for other
 countries.
So now, we’re losing Pfizer. We’re losing many of our great companies.
We have $2.5 trillion offshore at least. And everybody agrees it should come hom
e – the Democrats, the Republicans. For three years, they can’t make a deal.
 They can’t make a deal because there’s such gridlock. There’s no leadersh
ip in Washington.
We will make this country so great. We have people and I’ll tell you something
. I’ll tell you something…[interrupted by protester] said something to me th
e other day and what I really want to do – [interrupted by protester] – what
 we want to do or what I want to do is I want to be the people’s president.
…Think of this, think of this, I don’t work for any of the lobbyists. I don
t work for any of these people that are leading our country in the wrong direc
tion. We don’t.
…The best thing that I’ve seen in going around and the thing that I’ve see
n more than anything else is how smart the people are. They don’t believe thos
e people in the back that write with fork. I’m telling you, they don’t belie
ve them. The people are really smart.
What’s giving me more inspiration than any other single thing are the people t
hat I’ve met – the incredible people of this country.
We’re going to make America great again. And you know what? We’re going to m
ake it greater, greater, than ever before. And I love you all and thank you very
 much. South Carolina. Great. Thank you! We love you. Thank you!


Thank you very much, everybody. You just like me because my daughter happens to 
be Jewish. Right? She has a great husband, Jared, and I’ll tell you what Ivank
a could not be happier and she’s very proud. The only bad news, I can’t get 
her on Saturday. I call and I call. I can’t speak to my daughter anymore on Sa
turdays. But that’s okay.
It’s an honor to be with you. You know, I’ve devoted so much time over my li
fe to Israel, and the other politicians they can talk but believe me they haven
t done what I’ve done. I’ve received many, many awards.
I was the Grand Marshal of the Israeli Day Parade at a very dangerous time when 
people said, "Don’t do it. Don’t do it." I walked up Fifth Avenue. I’m loo
king up for lots of trouble. But I said, "No way am I not going to do it." And i
t was a rough time as you know. It was 2004, and it was a tremendously successfu
l parade. Maybe their most successful parade that they ever had.
So, I’m in a different position than the other candidates because I’m the on
e candidate I don’t want any of your money; I want your support but I don’t 
want your money.
I’m self-funding my campaign. It’s been an amazing experience for me because
 I have very little money invested so far.
I thought by this time I’d have about 30 million in ads and I have none althou
gh I took a small radio commercial the other day in Iowa. But we have virtually 
no money in invested in ads or advertising. And I think you as business people w
ill feel pretty good about this and respect it.
At first, I was embarassed by that. I said, "You know, I think we’re going to 
have spend money just to spend money" but it’s not really like a good thing to
 do because I am in first place by a lot. It’s not even close. Every single po
ll, every single state.
The numbers just came in three minutes ago in New Hampshire – the PPP poll –
 Trump at 27%, the next one is 13%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 5%, and the rest are off the bo
ard. They have to drop out pretty soon I guess, right?
Most of importantly, favorability – no, I still like the top number the most b
ut favorability is now at 50% to 39%, which is good, and I beat Hillary in the F
ox poll as you see very easily 46% to 41%. That’s ultimately the most importan
t.
And you know, I’ve been a tremendous fan and I’ve been a tremendous contribu
tor. I’ve given a lot of money recently to Hatzalah, $100,000, emergency respo
nse. They do a fantastic job.
And my father, Fred, was always a big supporter. So I grew up in that environmen
t. I grew up in Brooklyn, Queens, and Israel was always very paramount in our mi
nd.
In fact, I’ve been sometimes criticized because I received so many awards from
 Jewish groups, and they look at my wall. It’s loaded up. But now the Christia
ns are catching up, I have to tell you.
My Christians are liking me a lot lately and they’ve been great. They have bee
n great.
So, Obama is the worst thing that’s ever happened to Israel. The worst. The wo
rst.
And when I see great friends of mine who are very, very pro-Israel, very – I m
ean, they love Israel. They love it with passion, and they’re having fundraise
rs for Obama. I said, "What are you doing?"
And it’s almost like they answer me and they say, "We don’t know. He comes t
o New York. We don’t know. We don’t know." I said he’s a disaster.
I really believe the Iran deal. Look, I’m a negotiator like you folks. We’re
 negotiators.
We don’t build gas stations in the middle of, as you know, Afghanistan for $43
 million – can you imagine this? A small gas station – $43 million – and t
hen they used the wrong kind of terminal because they don’t sell that type of 
gas. Okay? $43 million for a gas station.
How many think they could have done it for less? Would you raise your hands plea
se?
But I look at Obama, I look at that deal where we gave to Iran $150 billion. The
y don’t need to develop nuclear weapons; they can buy them. They can buy them.
 It’s true. Why do they have to develop them? They can buy them. We gave them 
$150 billion.
They go out and in terms of, you know, surveillance, they have the right to self
-inspect. How about that? On their major, most dangerous they can self-inspect.


We’re going to let them self-inspect. And then you have of course the 24 days 
and the 24 days we’re all good with contracts don’t start until such and suc
h happens. It could be forever before you ever go into inspect.
And we don’t even get our prisoners back.
And now they want to start a negotiation to get the prisoners back and they want
 19 people for our three. They don’t want to give us our four. You know we hav
e four. But they only want to talk three.
Now, that should have been negotiated right at the beginning, three years ago.
And maybe better than any audience, I mean, the people in this room understand w
hat I’m saying. It should have been you walk in – by the way, did you ever s
ee a negotiation take so long? And we conceded on every single. We didn’t win 
anything. We didn’t win anything.
But that should have been with our prisoners – day one, whatever it is years a
go, we have to get our prisoners back. You don’t want them. We need them. It w
ill make us look better. Both everybody is going to like us more. With the Ameri
can public, any deal that we strike, it’s going to look good.
And you say that. We have to get our prisoners back. Day one. They’re going to
 say, "No, we’re not giving." And we’re going to say, "Bye bye. Bye! Call us
 when you’re ready." And then we go out and double up and triple up the sancti
ons. I guarantee you within 48 hours they’re calling, begging us to come back 
to the table and you have your prisoners back. It’s so easy.
Now, the president, you saw that, and John Kerry, who is probably the worst nego
tiator I’ve ever seen. No, he’s the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen. He di
d not read The Art of the Deal, folks, I can tell you that. Now, he’s one of t
he few. He’s one of the – biggest selling of all time business book of all t
ime, he didn’t read it. And Obama definitely didn’t read it. Obama, ayeyeye.
 Oh.
But they said – this is hard to believe but this is what they said – a lot o
f press back there so I have to say everything exactly correct because if I don
t I end up with a – they said we didn’t want to complicate the negotiation
s by asking for the prisoners. It’s really complicated. We want our prisoners 
back. Oh, so complicated. They said they didn’t want to complicate – so now,
 we’re going to end up making a new deal probably at some point.
I’d tell you this, look I’ll just tell you this: If I win, before I take off
ice, I guarantee you those prisoners are going to be back. They’re going to be
 back, I guarantee you. They’re going to be back.
Now, our president doesn’t want to use the term – we had another event, whic
h probably was – the one yesterday – probably was related. It always happens
 but it probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not. But it turns o
ut probably was related – radical Islamic terrorism. And I’ll tell you what,
 we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say. There’s 
something going on with him that we don’t know about.
Now, as far as Hillary’s concerned, she’s going to go with what he wants.
She shouldn’t be allowed to run. What she did is criminal with the emails. She
 shouldn’t be allowed to run.
She’s going to have to follow his line because she’s on a thread. You know, 
look, in real life, his Attorney General, his U.S. Attorney, his Attorney Genera
l. So his Attorney General is going to listen to him in my opinion. I think it
s very dishonest what’s going on with our government.
Gen. [David] Petraeus was given a life-changing sentence. Other people have been
 sent to jail. Petraeus was, you know, essentially – look, I don’t want to g
et into it with the poor guy. What he went – for nothing, compared to what she
 did for nothing, for 5% of what she did.
And Obama, I mean, she can’t go against him because only does boom she gets in
dicted. That’s the end of it. That’s the end of it.
So when you see Hillary backing up virtually everything he says, and he’s got 
control of her. I mean, it’s just total control.
But I’ll tell you what, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. What she did was a 
criminal act.
And remember this, this is a six-year – you have a six year statute of limitat
ions. So she’s fighting for her life. If she doesn’t become president, she c
ould have a real problem. Does that make any sense to anybody? Does that make se
nse to anybody?
Because what she did was just wrong. Okay? And you know she’s been involved in
 corruption her whole life, whether it’s Whitewater. I mean, her whole life is
 corruption.


She was a horrible Secretary of State. She did a horrible job other than travele
d a lot. She traveled a lot, nothing ever got done. The whole – the world blew
 up around her. It blew up.
500 to 600 calls and emails and everything from our ambassador asking for help a
nd she didn’t respond.
The truth is she doesn’t have the strength or the energy. She responded to her
 friends. You know the friends we’re talking about. Some of those friends are,
 you know, sort of an interesting friend going on there.
But she responded – yeah, you get that, right? A lot of people don’t get tha
t.
But she responded to a friend, but she doesn’t respond to an ambassador that
s asking for help. Hundreds – hundreds of requests and she doesn’t respond.
Now, remember this, I go every night to someplace. I mean, yesterday I was in Ma
nassas, Virginia, we had an unbelievable crowd.
The other day I was in Florida, we had 12,000 people in Sarasota at 12 p.m. with
 the football games going on. 12,000 people. The convention center held 5,000. S
o we had thousands outside. I made a speech outside. I made two speeches…I sai
d, "You can’t get me a larger convention center so I can do one speech?" My pe
ople said, "No, this is the biggest one. We set a record – a big record. We se
t a record everywhere. We beat the record of Elton John. It’s true. Elton John
. I’m no longer competing with politicians. I’m competing with the musical t
alent.
One of the great musicians said "You get the largest crowds of any single human 
being on Earth without a guitar" meaning who doesn’t count on music.
So it’s true, we’ve had tremendous response. We’ve had incredible response
.
I think you know if you look at what’s going on and I think based on the respo
nse, based on the polls – again I don’t want your money therefore you’re p
robably not going to support me because stupidly you want to give money. Trump d
oesn’t want money therefore we can’t – even though he’s better than all 
these guys, even though he’s going to do more for Israel than anybody else, ev
en though Bibi Netanyahu asked me to do a commercial for him and I did and he wo
n his race, so I was very happy about that. But he asked me to do a commercial. 
And they said I was the only celebrity. I don’t know if that’s – but they 
said I’m the only celebrity. I don’t know. I’m not a celebrity. See now I
m a politician. I’m so embarrassed by that term.
You know, my how life I’ve been a business, I’ve been a developer. I’ve em
ployed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. I have unbelievable stateme
nts and unbelievable company.
A lot of people said, "Oh, he’ll never file." This you’ll get a kick out of.
 "He’ll never run because he’ll never want to file various papers. And then 
he’ll never file this and that and then you’d have to sign your life away." 
The first paper – we all know about first papers. You sign your life away. Tha
t’s the end of it. He did it.
Then they said, "Well, he’ll never sign and he’ll never file his financials 
because who knows, maybe he’s not as rich as people think."
So I filed my financials – almost 100 pages. The biggest ever filed by the fed
eral elections. And everybody said, "Oh my, it’s much bigger and much stronger
 and holy mackeral, look at these numbers!"
…If I didn’t run, I’d probably would have filed anyways because you know I
 built a great company and I like to brag about it whenever possible. It’s tru
e.
Some of the greatest assets – Doral, you know, Doral and Turnberry in Scotland
 and Trump Tower and many buildings in Manhattan. Just many – Bank of America 
building in San Francisco with a great partner and so many other buildings and t
hings…
And the reason I bring that up is because that’s the kind of thinking we need.
And I don’t bring it up as braggadocio. I bring it up because that’s the kin
d of thinking we need in this country to bring us back. We have people that don
t know the first thing about the word negotiation.
I can take anybody in this office, believe me, and they’re better than Obama a
nd they’re better than Kerry and they’re better than the foolish people – 
the foolish people. It’s so embarrassing when you see what happens.
Sergeant Bergdahl, all right? Sergeant Bergdahl – we get a traitor; they get f
ive of the greatest killers that they’ve wanted for nine years. You know, the 
deal was five for one.
And they knew he was a traitor before we made the deal. You know about Sergeant 
Bergdahl. He deserted. Six people were killed trying to get him back. They were 
looking for him.
The general and the colonel went to see all those people, they said, "No, he des
erted. He was a traitor." And we still made the deal.
So we get a traitor. We can give him back. Do you want to re-negotiate deals? So
me of us will re-negotiate deals. I would say about 99.9 – is there anybody th
at doesn’t re-negotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates so I want to 
re-negotiate – perhaps more than any room than I’ve ever spoken. Maybe more.
 It’s okay. I’ve been called on that a couple of times too.


But the fact is I want to renegotiate that deal. I want to drop him right smack 
in the middle of where he came from. The hell – they can have him even if we d
on’t get the five guys back because that’s not going to happen because you k
now where they are right now? They’re right now all in the battlefield fightin
g us and trying to kill us and kill anybody that gets in.
So they get their five guys that they’ve wanted for nine years they’ve wante
d them and we get a dirty rotten traitor. But that’s the way our people negoti
ate. They’re stupid people. Okay? They’re stupid people.
It’s very sad. It’s very sad.
So I’ll just tell you that I’m going to win. I am. I’m going to win. I mea
n, unless something happens, you know, walk across the street, the wrong thing h
appens. But I’ll tell you what, I have a great secret service. Here’s a nice
 one, you’re number one, they give you a secret service. I never saw so many p
eople – talented people, great people.
But I believe I’m going to win. I really have just a great feeling about it. A
nd you know, my life has been about winning. I’ve won, and my life has been ab
out winning, and that’s what I want to do for the country.
And if people say about my company and deals and you can do this deal or that de
al, I have no interest.
It’s like the other day – Ivanka, she’s doing so great. "Dad, we can buy t
his wonderful office building and I said, "Honey, who cares? How can you talk to
 me about such trivial things, Ivanka?" It’s amazing. See? Now I’m dealing i
n trillions. I’ve never heard of trillions before. You know, with this – we 
owe $19 trillion.
We just signed a budget that’s so bad and the Republicans – you know, we kno
w where the Democrats are coming from. But these Republican politicians, they go
 to Washington and they’re going to end Obamacare, which I’m going to do by 
the way – I’m ending, I’m terminating, it’s going to be repealed and rep
laced with something much better. But they go to Washington and they’re going 
to do this and they’re going to do budgets – like I heard the guy before "We
’re going to work in the budget." It’s all about that. What happens is they
re going to do budgets like we’re going to do this and that and I tell this 
story – then they walk into the Capitol Building, which is magnificent, and th
ey look up "Darling, oh my, look at those columns, look at the ceiling, look at 
the angels. Oh, look at these magnificent floors." They’ve never seen anything
 like it. "We’ve arrived. This is incredible." And then they become mainstream
. "We’ll vote on Obamacare. Yes, I vote." They don’t want to leave. They los
e all of their courage. I want to use a nice word because otherwise they’d get
 reported for foul language. They lose all of their courage and they’ve let us
 down. That won’t happen with me.
So, again, you’re not going to support me even though you know I’m the best 
thing that could ever happen to Israel and I’ll be that. I know why you’re n
ot going to support me and you know you’re not going to support me because I d
on’t want your money. Isn’t it crazy? No, it’s true.
You know, if I wanted to have your money, I think I’d have a damn good chance 
and I think I’d get more money than anybody else.
Do you know the money I have turned down? This has not been my life turning down
 money. Guys want to give me millions.
I would have made – poor Jeb Bush, I mean, this poor guy with his low energy. 
It’s sad. No, it’s sad.
I came up with that term, it became so defining. It’s like having it on his fo
rehead "I am low energy". No, no, it’s sad.
He raised $125 million, which means he’s controlled totally, totally controlle
d by the people that gave him the money.
That’s why you don’t want to give me money, okay? But that’s okay. You wan
t to control your own politician. That’s fine. Good. Fine. Think about that, f
olks. Don’t worry about it.
I understand. Hey, five months ago, I was with you. Who’s better than me? Who 
is better than me? I gave $350,000 to the Republican Governors Association. I ne
ver even gotten a letter of thank you. It’s true. $350,000. I didn’t receive
 one letter, not one letter from one governor. Stupid. The good thing is I don
t give any – why would I give any more? You don’t get a thank you letter.
Politicians – remember this – politicians forget, politicians generally aren
’t competent, and the one thing they are good at is getting elected and that
s what you’re going to end up having.
But I would love your support but I don’t want your money. I appreciate it. No
w, let’s take some questions. Okay? Good.


…I’m going to go there right after this. I have to go through – you know, 
you have to watch to make sure that the contractors aren’t stealing and rippin
g you off and everything else.
But to show you how important this forum is and how important the country is to 
me and how important Israel is to me, it’s so important, I don’t mention my 
projects. It’s not like very important to me anymore.
What’s really important to me is the United States and making it great again.
My theme is Make America Great Again. I mean, it’s taken off like crazy. The h
ats – it’s going crazy.
But you know, some of these guys try to copy it but I had it trademarked because
 we’re smart.
A couple of them got up. No, you see, I was making this speech and everybody sto
od up – make America great again… But nobody stood up to them. But we sent t
hem a little notice – don’t use that term. We’re trademarked.
Can you imagine I got the approval?
But we are – we’re building a great hotel down the road. I hope you all stay
 and it’s going to be wonderful…


…So I was interviewed yesterday by a whole group of reporters from AP and they
 did a very good job. Very fair story.
And one of the questions was about Israel and the Palestinians what’s going to
 happen.
I said – I used that as an example of some deals that are maybe the hardest de
al ever in history to make…Can we think of any deals? We all have tough deals,
 right? You know, we have some good, some bad…
But I said people are going to have to make sacrifices one way or the other.
I believe – because I’m a dealmaker – I believe that I can put both sides 
together.
But I said, it’ll take six months. At the end of six months and maybe sooner 
 with us we have a deal instinct. A lot of us. And you can walk into a room an
d you can almost tell like in two seconds whether or not you’re going to make 
a deal.
I will know very quickly whether or not I’ll be able to put that deal together
.
I used that in this interview as an example of perhaps the hardest deal in histo
ry to put together. There’s probably no tougher deal.
If I could do that, it would make me so happy because there’s so much violence
, so much death, and just been going on for so many years.
Now, I said you have to have a commitment to make it. I don’t know that Israel
 has the commitment to make it, and I don’t know that the other side has the c
ommitment to make it.
With that being said, you know, I have a good chance of winning because you look
 at what’s going on. So I have a good chance. I don’t like to as a dealmaker
 give away a lot of cards by talking about how I feel about this or that. I’d 
rather save it for that moment when you walk into the room. I don’t want one s
ide or the other saying.
Look, I think people know where I stand. But wouldn’t it be great if they coul
d make a deal? But a lasting deal, a real deal. Not a phony deal that’s going 
to last a week and then bad things started happening again.
I’d love to – and I will give it. You know Obama, as you know he said it won
’t happen, meaning he gave up on this before it even started.
But I think it would be a great thing for Israel – I think it would be a great
 actually for both sides if a real deal could be made, and I’m going to give i
t my best.
I’m a great dealmaker. That’s what I do. I made a lot of money. I’m going 
to give it my best. It would be great if that deal could be made.
…
By the way, Israel has given a lot…And a lot of people don’t know that. I th
ink the public relations for Israel hasn’t been so great because Israel’s gi
ven a lot but hasn’t been given a lot of credit for what they’ve given…
In fact, some things have been given which were unthinkable and a lot of turmoil
 it caused in Israel. There were things given. But I’d like to go in with a cl
ean slate and just say let’s go, everybody’s even, we love everybody, and le
t’s see if we could do something.
But I do think this – and I do think right from the beginning and that one of 
the reasons I’m saying it now even though perhaps it comes back to haunt me la
ter on it has to be said that Israel has given a lot. I don’t know whether or 
not they want to go that far in a little step and you know that’s going to be 
up to them. But Israel has not been given the credit that they deserve for what 
they’ve done. I will say that. I will say that. So that’s it.


You know what I want to do? I want to wait until I meet with Bibi. You know, I
m leaving for Israel in a very short period of time. I know. I know what you’
re saying. I just – you’re not going to be – who’s the wise guy?
Do me a favor. Just relax. Okay? You’ll like me very much, believe me. Okay? A
nd you wonder why you get yourself in trouble. All right? You’re going to like
 me very much. It’s going to be fine.
But again, you can’t go in with that – if you’re going to make a deal and 
you could make a great deal – you can’t go in with the attitude we’re goin
g to shove it down. You’ve got to go in and get it and do it and do it nicely 
so everyone’s happy. Don’t worry about it. You’re going to be very happy. 
Okay? Don’t worry about it.


I think he’s a very good man. I think he’s been treated very badly. I think 
that our president has been unbelievably rude to Bibi. I don’t know how many p
eople like Bibi. But I think he’s been unbelievably rude.
And – I mean, we’ll talk about deals after the fact, which is a shame but I 
think the Iran deal is the worst single thing.
Perhaps it’ll go down – and I’ve been pretty good at predicting things. I 
think it’s going to go down as the worst single thing that’s ever happened t
o Israel. I think it’s a catastrophe for Israel.
And I think the fact that Obama was willing to make that deal for anybody that l
oves Israel to support this guy or even the Democratic Party is impossible to be
lieve.
I think it will be one of the great catastrophes.
But if I get in, I will straighten it out, believe me. It’s going to be straig
htened out. It’s going to be straightened out tough and it’s going to be str
aightened out fast.
The one bad thing is if I get in, the $150 billion is gone. That hurts me and th
at hurts the people of Israel. But the $150 billion is gone because it’ll be g
one before you get there.
You know, we’re talking about a year and more actually. Although the election 
very quick. You know, it’s coming up. It’s now less than a year and you know
 we have the Iowa starts on February 1st and then we go right down the line and 
it’s very exciting. We’re talking about a couple of months now for it to sta
rt.
For a person like me, I mean, it’s very exciting.


Well, I haven’t been working too much with the Arab leaders, to be honest with
 you. Okay?
You know, I told you I made commercials for Bibi. I don’t know if that’s goi
ng to help me in the negotiation. I can tell you. You know, I’m trying to keep
 it nice and level, right? Then I get people screaming at me. But I’m trying t
o keep it as level as possible but I for the most part don’t know.
The King of Jordan seems like a nice man. I mean, I don’t know. We’re going 
to see. A lot of people like him; some people don’t.
But I think I will probably be able – what my history – you know, I took som
e heat because I get along with Democrats, I get along with liberals, I get alon
g with conservatives, I get along with Republicans. I get along with everybody. 
That’s what I was – I’m a businessperson. I get along with everybody. We h
ave to get along with everybody.
And I took some heat and I always explained that. I said, "Wait a minute, I’m 
a businessperson. I’ve got to get along with everybody." I live in Manhattan. 
It’s all Democrat. I mean, it’s virtually all – Republicans don’t even r
un people for the most part and if they do they get 5%. You know, they get a ver
y small percentage of the vote. Got to get along with everybody.
I think that’s going to be a tremendous asset because right now we have gridlo
ck in Washington. We have people that – they don’t talk.
You know, I remember that years ago because I’ve been a very political person 
on the other side but always very political.
But years ago, the Republicans and the Democrats – they used to like each othe
r. They’d get along. They’d have dinner together. They’d argue and they’
d fight and they’d disagree and would have, you know, different views and thin
gs.
But in the evening, they’d go out and they’d have dinner together with their
 families. You don’t see that anymore.
There’s total hatred and there’s total gridlock.
I’ll give you one point, which I think is important. Corporate inversions. Rig
ht? So you have companies leaving the United States and they’re leaving becaus
e of better taxes and better a lot of things. A lot of things are better. But th
ey’re leaving. Pfizer. How good is Pfizer? Thousands and thousands of jobs are
 going to be lost.
But they’re also leaving because we have $2.5 trillion at least – I think it
’s a much higher number than that. $2.5 trillion – that’s out of the count
ry that these companies can’t get back because of bureaucracy and horrible tra
de agreements but because the taxes are too high. They’re so onerous that nobo
dy in this room would agree to pay that much money to get your money out.
So they leave it over there and they actually take the company and they move the
 company to the money because that’s how much money.
The Republicans and the Democrats totally agree that the money should come back.
 For three years they can’t get a deal. There’s no leadership. It’s gridlo
ck.
There’s an example of something where everybody agrees – all the people that
 you see up here they all agree but they can’t get it done because they’re p
oliticians. They’re all talk; they’re no action.
So there’s something and it’s so important. It’s not like something where 
they don’t get – like there’s big disputes and we understand that. This is
 something everybody agrees – the money should pour into this country and we s
hould use the money and all the things – taxes paid.
But they agree and they can’t get it doen because of gridlock and incompetent 
leadership.


You know, honestly, I don’t think anybody can say. She says she is. But now sh
e says all of a sudden maybe less so than you thought because she’s going very
, very far over to the other side.
I mean, Bernie Sanders has brought her to positions that she didn’t want to be
 at. You look at some of the things that she’s saying right now.
But I’ll tell you what, whether she is or not, she doesn’t have the strength
 or the energy to help Israel. I’m telling you she doesn’t.
…But just take a look. She’ll come out and do an event and you don’t see h
er for another four days, three days, five days. No, it’s true.
Think of it. We don’t need – some people say it’s not nice to say. She doe
sn’t have the strength or the energy.
Israel needs more than just our support. They need strength. They need real powe
r behind them.
Because you know, you look at as these countries fall over there, Israel’s loo
king more and more – you know, Israel has some difficulties.
And one thing and I think you’ll all admit it. These people are fighting reall
y dirty but they fight a lot better than we used to think. Right? We used to thi
nk "Oh, that was easy."
15 years ago with my friends from Israel because I have a lot of friends from Is
rael, they used to smile and laugh "Oh, don’t worry about it." Now they’re s
aying, "These guys are – they’re dirty fighters." And they’re not bad. You
 know, they’re tough. They’re not the JV. Okay? Obama said they’re the JV.
 They’re not the JV folks.
We need tough. We need General George Patton. We need General MacArthur. We don
t need the guys we have. I see them on television – generals. I don’t want
 my generals on television saying "Well, ISIS is very tough."
I saw a guy the other day. ISIS is very tough. I don’t know. I don’t need th
at.
Do you think General George Patton – they don’t like him because he was a fo
ul mouth vicious horrible brilliant guy. So he would never make it. They probabl
y would have had him thrown out years ago.
But we need Patton. We need a genius like MacArthur.
And we have those people. We have those people. I’ll find that person.
But we’re going to knock the crap out of them, I’ll tell you what. We’re g
oing to win. We’re going to win. We’re going to win.


Well, I think radical Islam right now is, and I feel that’s the greatest. And 
again, we have a president who refuses to use the term.
But radical Islam is – I’ll tell you one thing I know isn’t is global warm
ing. That’s the one thing…I know isn’t.
I mean, we have a guy that just the other day who said – here they want to blo
w everything – this is right after Paris. They want to blow our cities up. The
y want to destroy our civilization, and he’s worried about global warming, whi
ch a lot of people think is a hoax.
By the way, I won so many environmental awards shockingly. No, it’s true.
And you know what I want to do? I want really immaculate air. I want clean, crys
tal water. I want a lot of things. Okay? I want a lot of things.
But global warming – you noticed they changed the name – they go global warm
ing, they go climate change, they go – now I hear a lot of extreme weather. Ho
w can you miss with extreme weather, right? If it’s cold, it’s okay. If it
s hot, it’s okay. If it’s windy, if it’s hot – everything is extreme. S
o now they use extreme weather. It is a disgrace what’s going on.
And to have this man embarrass us by standing up and saying that global warming 
is our biggest threat, we got to get him out so fast and thank goodness we only 
have a year left.
Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.




…It’s a great honor. I want to thank Simon and Schuster, one of the most mag
nificent publishers. For years and years, I’ve heard about Simon and Schuster
s being a fabulous – I was going to say the Rolls-Royce, I was going to say 
the Harvard or the Yale, but they really are a great one. And I want to thank yo
u very much. You’ve given us such tremendous support.
And we did this quickly and I think we did it very effectively. It’s been an i
ncredible experience.
We wrote a book and the title – "Crippled America" – is very tough but unfor
tunately we have to do what we have to do and I think one of the reasons we’ve
 been doing so well in the campaign is because we tell it like it is. We tell th
e truth.
And America is crippled. We owe $17 [trillion] and now $18 [trillion] and now it
’s actually very soon going to be $19 trillion in debt.
We have a military that doesn’t have proper instruction from leadership. We do
n’t know what we’re doing. We’re losing all over the world with trade deal
s. Every country, no matter what country you talk about, you can just pick a nam
e out of a hat, they’re beating us in trade.
And we can’t go on like this any longer. It’s impossible to go on like this 
any longer.
I always mention as an example Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor. We get Sergeant Ber
gdahl; they get five of the people they wanted and they wanted badly. And that
s not the way it’s going to work anymore.
So we write about it in the book. We tell lots of different stories of lots of d
ifferent things. And I think it’s going to be very instructional, very importa
nt.
To me, it was instructional.
When I did "The Art of the Deal", I think one of the reasons it was so successfu
l is that it was largely instructional. Even today when I speak, so many people 
hold up the book "The Art of the Deal" and the other books we’ve done.
So this is one that probably not since the Art of the Deal, I have to tell this 
to Louise and Simon and Schuster, have I worked so hard on a book and it was in 
a confined period of time. We wanted to get it out really, really quickly so tha
t it pertain to what’s going on right now. It’s a moment of time. And we got
 it done.
And David did a fantastic job…And all of my people did a great job. They helpe
d me so much because we are doing a couple of other things right now. So this wa
s not easy getting this in.


But we see by the lines – the lines go down to Park Avenue. They’ve been for
ming since last night and I’m going to be signing books starting at 12 p.m. We
’re doing a couple of interviews and then we’re signing books starting at 12
 p.m. and that’ll be very exciting for me.
But we have fans that have bought the book and they just bought it and some have
 been online now for 12 and 14 hours. I don’t know how they’re doing this bu
t they do it. They find a way.
So I’m looking forward to getting to the signings.
…






Well, I think it’s a different book. You know, we just had polls come out toda
y from Iowa where I’m leading. You saw the new poll from Iowa. You saw the new
 poll in New Hampshire where I’m leading big.
A poll just came out in Florida where I’m leading big. Georgia, Texas. I mean,
 all over the place.
And I think you know look we’re doing well. And if you add Ben and myself we
re beating everybody by a lot. That seems to be the big story that we’re beat
ing – they call it the establishment. It’s called really the failed establis
hment because the establishment has let us down.
But I don’t know. I don’t know how his book is doing.






Well, I think my book is very hard-hitting. His is a different kind of book and 
he’s a different kind of a person. My book is very hard-hitting. It says it li
ke it is. And based on what Simon and Schusters just told me, it’s selling lik
e hotcakes. So we’ll see.






We’re very different people. We have very different qualities and we are extre
mely different. And I’m different from all of the other candidates.
Look, nobody can negotiate trade deals like me.
We are going to take the $400 billion a year that we’re losing with China, tha
t’s going to be turned around. The $75 billion a year that we’re short on wi
th Japan.
The $50 billion a year that we lost to Mexico. And that’s right, there will be
 a wall built. It will go up. It will be built. And people will come into the co
untry legally.
So I mean, much different than – you’re look at Marco Rubio – very, very w
eak on illegal immigration.
You look at Ben and he’s very weak on immigration and he wants to get rid of M
edicare. I mean, Ben wants to get rid of Medicare. You can’t get rid of Medica
re. It’d be a horrible thing to get rid of. It actually works. You get rid of 
the fraud, waste, and abuse. It works. So when a man is weak on immigration and 
wants to get rid of Medicare, I don’t know how he stays here.






No, I think that really Marco is over-rated. And frankly had Bush been a better 
messenger, he has the better message. I mean, if that was me delivering that mes
sage it would have been a much different story because he hasn’t been able to 
– Marco doesn’t show up to the United States Senate. He’s representing the
 people of Florida, which by the way that poll just came out today and I’m way
 up in Florida over everybody.
But Marco is a sitting Senator and he doesn’t show up for the people of Florid
a, and I don’t think he should be doing that.
Now, Bush gave a very weak message. I agree with that. It was poorly delivered. 
But the facts are on Bush’s side and ultimately I think Marco’s going to be 
hurt very badly.
And if you look at Mr. Singer, you have to see where Mr. Singer is coming from a
nd when you see where he’s coming from, I think people are going to say, "Whoa
, we didn’t know that."
But look at Marco’s stance on illegal immigration. It’s really trouble for h
im. I don’t see how he can win.






Marco Rubio’s personal finances are discredit…All you have to do is look at 
his credit card. I mean, he is a disaster with his credit cards. And I’ll tell
 you what, I love Florida. I’m in Florida all the time. And for years, I’ve 
been hearing that his credit cards are disaster. I would think that when you tak
e a look at it, you would find that.
But his credit card debt and his problems with credit card and what he did when 
he was running the party apparatus with credit cards, I’ve heard about it for 
years. You’ll have to find out.






Well, he has a very bad record of finances if you look at what happened with his
 houses, with his – you know, he certainly lives above his means. There’s no
 question about that.


…I’ll tell you what. On the debates, it’s very interesting. Because I don
t really care that much. I want a room. I want a podium. And let’s get going
. Because I don’t really care that much.
But a lot of the people that are candidates who I respect – many of them, not 
all of them – but I respect many of them, they felt it was very unfair because
 Hillary Clinton was given all soft balls. I mean, she wasn’t asked one tough 
question. They didn’t talk about her foundation. They didn’t talk about any 
of the problems. They didn’t talk about the emails. When the email problem cam
e up, Bernie Sanders lost his whole campaign. I mean, what he did was so stupid 
from his standpoint. In order to get a one-minute soundbite of some applause, he
 gave up the emails. That was end of his campaign.
First of all, people aren’t going to his rallies anymore. He’s finished.
So unless something happens to her with respect to the emails, she’ll easily b
e the candidate.
But I will say this: She only got softballs. That’s all she got.
And if you look at the way we were treated, it wasn’t the same way.
With that being said, I don’t really care.






Well, I think the Republicans actually are doing a pretty good job overall. They
 coalesced at that last debate because I mean, it really started with me. The gu
y asked me a question. I think Harwood is probably finished as a credible report
er. He’s a disaster. And he was – it was such as horribly put question and s
o obvious.
And the Republicans coalesced around each other. It was actually pretty beautifu
l when you think about it.
And all we want to do is to be treated fairly.
But with me, I don’t care that much. Just give me a podium.
What I would say is this: The networks have made a fortune because of me, not be
cause of anybody else.
You know, they were saying that the last cycle, they had 2 million and 1 million
 people and the networks didn’t even want to broadcast it because nobody watch
ed. Okay? Nobody wanted to watch.
Now, they have 25 million people, 24 million people, 23 million people and 16 mi
llion people. I mean, give me a break.
So somebody said, "How did they get there?"
And actually Variety and Hollywood Reporter, who do report this stuff pretty wel
l – much better than the political press – they said "solely for one reason 
– it was Trump". I’ll take the credit.
But I’ll tell you what I also want. I think that Wounded Warriors and our vete
rans should be given some of the enormous profits being made on these debates 
 enormous profits – by the way beyond anything they’ve ever envisioned.
CNN was going to get $2,000 for a 30 second ad. They ended up getting $250,000. 
So they went from $2,000 to $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
The networks and the cable are making a fortune, and I think they should give so
me of the profits to the Wounded Warriors and the veterans. That’s what I want
.






I’m giving them away. I’m giving the profits of my book – I’m giving the
m away to a lot of different – including the vets.






…I have been amazing with respect to the hiring of women. This building was bu
ilt as the head person who was fantastic by a woman and that was at a time when 
you didn’t see that in the construction trades. I mean, it was totally unique.
I have many, many executives upstairs and in different buildings that I have tha
t are women. Many – a proportion that’s close to 50%. Might even be over 50%
 if I analyze it. And they get paid a lot of money – in many cases more than m
en doing the same job.
So women have always appreciated that about me. I’ve been in terms of employme
nt really a standout and I’ve been honored for doing so well with women.






What Jeb Bush was saying at the last debate? I don’t know. But he didn’t say
 it well.






…I like Telemundo by the way. I like it better than Univision. I’m suing Uni
vision for $500 million.
…Because the country is doing so poorly. It’s a very accurate title because 
the country is doing so poorly.








That’s good. They’re going to have some demonstrations. Oh, good because it
ll get even higher ratings if they do that. I think it’s fine. I think they 
should demonstrate. Ratings will go even higher than they are going to be. It’
s going to be one of the highest rated shows ever. And they’re very excited ab
out it.
And I have a great relationship, as you know from Telemundo, with the Hispanics.
 You’ve treated me actually very fairly. Won the poll recently in Nevada. Won 
other polls. And in Nevada, I think I got 37% and leading everybody.
So I have a great relationship with the Hispanics. I have working for me thousan
ds right now – thousands of Hispanics. I’ve had tens of thousands of people 
over the year working for me. I’m a job machine. I’m a job machine.
And one of the things that does come out in every single poll and every single s
urvey is that nobody for the economy nobody is even close. I’m two, three, and
 you see that – two, three, four, five times greater than anybody else.
And you’d almost say like it’s about the jobs, it’s about the economy. The
n how’s anybody going to beat Trump in all fairness?
But I’ve had a great relationship with the workers. I’ve had a great relatio
nship with jobs. And I’ve had an amazing relationship with the Hispanics. And 
I predict that I’m going to win the Hispanic vote.






I think I’m going to win the Hispanic vote. I predict, yeah, I think I’m goi
ng to get the nomination and I will win the White House. I think beating Hillary
 Clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad.




That’s the question I like. How am I preparing for my SNL? Well, I’m meeting
 with Lorne Michaels in a little while. Afterwards, we’re going to sign – I 
guess got thousands of people on line but we’re going to sign and then later o
n this evening I’m meeting with Lorne Michaels and the whole staff and we’ll
 start the preparation. We’ll pick our skits. Am I nervous? Not too nervous. N
ot too nervous. But we’re going to do a good job and we’re going have a fant
astic show. We’re all going to have a lot of fun.






My Jeb impression? No, I don’t want to do that. I don’t like showing a perso
n sleeping at the podium.






Tom is asking "Can Jeb make a comeback?" I think it’s going to be very hard. V
ery hard. Not about money. I just think – you know, I came up with the energy.
 And I just think we need tremendous energy because we need a person that has tr
emendous personal energy to get us back on track. You can’t do that when you d
on’t have that.
I think Marco is highly overrated. Highly overrated. He doesn’t have it and al
l you have to do is look at his stance on things.
Jeb – he lacks the quality that you need.
We’re talking about everybody in the world is ripping us off. You need a very 
strong person with tremendous energy. Thank you very much folks, I’ll take the
 job.
But and it’s so important. And by the way, Ben Carson does not have that energ
y.
We need somebody with tremendous energy to straighten out the military, to strai
ghten out ISIS, to straighten out our horrible trade deals, to terminate Obamaca
re and come up with something far better for far less money. You need somebody w
ith tremendous personal energy as President.
We have a president right now that doesn’t have energy. I mean, you think Obam
a has energy? He has no energy. And he’s been a horrible president.
We need somebody with great personal energy as a leader so that we can make grea
t deals with other countries and do well in every other respect. And certainly J
eb does not have that energy in my opinion.






From the Guardian. Ah, they treat me very nicely in Scotland. Go ahead.






Well, we just went over that. Honestly, we just went over that. And it’s only 
going to make it harder.






You’re going to see what we’re going to do. You’re going to see. But the w
hole thing with anchor babies, I turned out to be right. A person has a baby, li
ves in Mexico or lives in Asia or lives in many different place, has a baby, wal
ks across the border, has the baby here. Now, we’re responsible for that perso
n for the next 85 years. I don’t think so.
And by the way, I was right, they were wrong. The 14th Amendment does not give t
hem clearance on that.
And if you wanted to do that in Mexico or if you wanted to do that in almost any
 other country where you have a baby in that country and that country has that p
erson for 85 years including all of the costs of that person, they would laugh y
ou right out of the country. You would be laughed out of the country so fast.
So, that turned out – I was 100% right. We’ll have to worry about that. We
re going to take care of it, and it’s going to be done in a very humane way.
But we’re going to bring back our country and we’re going to have a wall and
 Mexico’s going to pay for the wall and you know why they’re going to pay? A
nd I have great relationships with Mexico and phenomenal relationships with the 
Mexican people. Phenomenal. And they buy apartments from me; they work for me by
 the thousands – by the thousands. Phenomenal relationships.
But let me just tell you we lose so much money with Mexico in terms of trade imb
alance – $45 billion last year. Plus, we give Mexico billions and billions of 
dollars. They will pay for the wall. And it will be very interesting.
And you know what? People are going to come into this country but they’re goin
g to come in legally.




…A lot of European countries are going to build walls to stop the immigration.
Well, walls work. All you have to do is ask Israel. Walls work if it’s properl
y constructed. Not the walls that these characters, these politicians that we ha
ve running our country who are a disgrace – all talk, no action politicians 
 they build a wall this big, they drive cars right through it.
Walls work. All you have to do is go and see Israel. They will tell you that wal
ls work.






We need pomp and circumstance. Our country has no spirit. Our country has no gra
vitas. Our country doesn’t feel good about itself. And the primary reason is w
e have no victories. I mean, where have we had a victory? Where have we had a vi
ctory in trade? Where have we had a victory as an example this horrible deal tha
t was signed with Iran where we’ve given them $150 billion and we lose everyth
ing. We lose everything. It’s a laughing stock. Worst deal. Worst contract I
ve ever seen drawn.
We have no victories. And I do write about it. We need some pomp and circumstanc
e. We need spirit. We need a cheerleader.
I thought seven years ago when Obama got elected, the one thing I thought that h
e would be a great cheerleader for this country. He’s not. He’s been a great
 divider for the country. He’s been one of the great dividers of all time.
I’m not saying dress. It has nothing to do with dress. It has to do with the f
act that what he says is very divisive. He has been a great divider for this cou
ntry, and that should not have happened.






…I’ll go anyway they want. I don’t care too much about the debates. Look, 
I’m the one that gets all the nasty questions anyway. Nobody else gets the rea
lly nasty questions. In a certain way, maybe they’re defending me although I w
ill tell you they’re not doing it for that reason.






I think it’s irrelevant. I just – I like the debates. I’ve had the debates
. I’ve done well in the debates. As you know, every single poll said I won all
 three debates. Now, I don’t know if I did or not but I certainly didn’t do 
badly. But every single poll says – even CNBC’s poll said I won the debate.
So I like the debates. I think they’re good for me. But we have to be treated 
a little bit fairly.
As an example, Hillary Clinton – no tough questions. I mean, why didn’t they
 ask about Bill? Why didn’t they ask about all of the different things. No tou
gh questions. Now, that was staged by the Democrats. And frankly, they did a ver
y smart thing in the way they staged it.
Well, we’re going to stage something properly also.
But as far as I’m concerned, I really don’t care that much. I just want a de
bate. I think debating is a good thing. It’s healthy. Gets everything into the
 open.
But you don’t want people like Harwood that read a question – blah, blah, bl
ah – that he wrote – that he carefully wrote. He thought he was such – his
 career – in my opinion, his career is probably ruined or certainly threatened
.
He could ask about anything you want. I mean, you have to ask about anything you
 want. Hillary had only softballs. All night long. It was like this – "Here, H
illary, hit this one out of the park."








Are you from Russia? All right. I think our relationship with Russia will be ver
y good. Vladimir Putin was on 60 Minutes with me three weeks ago. Right? Putin. 
And they have one of the highest ratings they’ve had in a long time. So I’m 
going to give him total credit. But we will have a very good relationship I thin
k with Russia.
Now, maybe we won’t. But I believe we will have a very good relationship with 
Russia. I believe that I will have a very good relationship with Putin.






Sounds okay to me.






Well, I think there are a lot of economic issues. We didn’t talk about trade. 
We didn’t talk about devaluations. Right? We didn’t talk about corporate inv
ersions, which by the way, none of the other candidates, they don’t even know 
what it means.
But we didn’t talk about corporate inversions where companies are leaving our 
country – massive companies – because they can’t get their money back and 
because they get lower taxes elsewhere. So they’re leaving and they’re takin
g their jobs with them.
The corporate inversion syndrome is a very important thing to be talking about.
These were all things that weren’t talked about at the debate. Instead, they t
alked about fantasy football. I mean, it was a big question – fantasy football
. I’m saying what about corporate inversions? $2.5 trillion at least. I think 
it’s probably twice that number is in other countries wanting to come back and
 because our system is so corrupt and terrible, they can’t get the money back 
to invest in this country.
So they don’t talk about corporate inversions at the debates. They talk about 
fantasy football. Those are the few.






I was against the war in Iraq. You know, it was very early on. I’ll give it to
 you. Yeah, I have it upstairs…
Well, you know, you have to understand, I was a developer. A lot of people didn
t care about my view in 2003 and 2004. But there was a Reuters article taken f
rom a magazine about my stance in 2004, I believe, in July of 2004 and it talked
 about my stance on how I felt about Iraq. And I said very strongly exactly what
 happened. I said you will destabilize the Middle East and when you destabilize 
the Middle East, Iran will take over Iraq. That’s exactly what’s happening. 
And they will take over the oil reserves, which are among the largest in the wor
ld, and in addition other bad things will happen. The other bad things are ISIS.
 I said that in 2004 and that was an article that was taken from a magazine whic
h was previous to that. I’ve felt that for a long time.






…Do I think that it’s time for some of the other Republicans in the race tha
t registering zero – in a couple of places they have a zero with an arrow poin
ting left, which I assume is a mistake because that’s less than zero. I assume
 that’s not happening. Do I think it’s time to have some of the other Republ
ican candidates drop out? Yes. There are too many people. Well, I don’t want t
o get personal but you can look at the poll numbers.
Look, if a person is campaigning for four or five months and they’re at 0% or 
1% or 2%, they should get out.
Like, you know, look at me. I go to Florida and look at the numbers that just ca
me out in Florida. 37%? Georgia. I mean, those are real numbers. These numbers t
hat these people have – and I often ask myself. I asked Mark yesterday, "What 
are they doing? Do they do this for their brand? Because I happen to think it’
s very bad for their brand."
I think [Scott] Walker did a good thing. I think the way Walker – he saw it wa
sn’t happening, wasn’t going to happen and he just got out quickly. You know
, he was favored. Don’t forget. You know. That was before Trump was going to h
appen. Right? But he was favored for a period of time. Favored. Walker. Gov. Wal
ker. They thought he was going to win.
What happened is he got out.
I think the way he got out was great. I think he did a really smart thing for hi
mself.
And frankly, other people should get out because I would like to personally have
 more time to talk about the problems of the United States and more importantly 
how we can solve the problems. So it’s a great question. People should get out
.








Ivanka. Oh, they just said one of the biggest applause lines – it’s true –
 I get is when I talk about my daughter Ivanka. She was just at Fortune Magazine
 for like something like Woman of the Year which is great…But Ivanka is going 
to be very involved and Melania is going to be very involved very soon. They’r
e going to be coming out very soon.






Oh, Ivanka is going to Iowa. When are you going to Iowa? Very soon.






I would say – I don’t see threats. I mean, whatever it is I have to do. Mark
 is saying "What are the top threats to your candidacy?" Who knows? I mean, you
re in the crazy world of politics. People change their minds.
I’m going to make America great again. Nobody else is going to be able to do t
hat. I’m going to do it.
I’m going to make it in my opinion better than ever before, and I think that
s awfully tough to compete with.
And one of the reasons that in my book I actually put financials in there – I 
showed some of the developments that – I have many, many more because you can 
only – Simon and Schuster – you actually kept me to eight or nine pages. Rig
ht? And there are four or five in a page. But I show some of the great developme
nts that I have done that are so successful and so incredible and so financially
 good, I show my financial statement from a year and a half, two years ago. Now 
it’s even better but we didn’t have that certified yet.
So I do that not in a braggadocious way. I do that because that’s the kind of 
thinking our country needs right now.
We are run by people that are incompetent. We are run by people who in so many w
ords – I hate to use the word stupid but you have to use that word. Unless the
y have bad intentions which I don’t believe they do. But we are run by incompe
tent people. We have incompetent leadership.
There are so many things. Like I mentioned corporate inversion. The Democrats wa
nt the money to come back. Who doesn’t? The Republicans want the money to come
 back. For three years, the Democrats have said we want the money to come back. 
For three years, the Democrats and the Republicans agree 100%. You have a vast m
ajority. Maybe everybody. For three years. Guess what? They haven’t done anyth
ing. Right? They can’t even get along when they agree.
So here’s the thing where we can take trillions of dollars, bring it back to t
his country, rebuild big parts of our country with it, companies can spend that 
money in our country, we have everybody agrees it should be done for years and t
hey can’t do it. That’s a part of the problem.






Well, you’re going to look – a lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. A lot of 
controversy with Mr. Singer. There are those people that probably wouldn’t hav
e want him to back. But we’ll see. I’ll talk to you.






No, they all agree. They all agree. They just didn’t want to go through the un
fair questions because they weren’t questions; they were statements.
You see, they were asking – they were giving statements in a sarcastic, disgus
ting way.
And by the way, I think Becky is terrific and I think Carl is terrific. But I th
ink John Harwood is not very good at what he does. But I think Becky Quick is a 
terrific person. I think Carl is a terrific person. But I will tell you John Har
wood was a disgrace to CNBC.






…The question is should the Fed raise rates? They are not raising them because
 Obama has asked them not to raise them. In my opinion, he wants to get out of o
ffice because we are in a bubble and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad t
hings are going to happen or potentially going to happen. And in my opinion, Jan
et Yellen is highly political and she’s not raising rates for a very specific 
reason because Obama told her not to because he wants to be out playing golf in 
a year from now and he wants to be doing other things and he doesn’t want to s
ee a big bubble burst during his administration. Janet Yellen should have raised
 the rates. She’s not doing it because the Obama administration and the presid
ent doesn’t want her to. And if she does it, you see what happens every time t
here’s even a thought of raising them just a little bit.
And one of the problems that we have is our currency right now is not competitiv
e with other currencies. Because if you look at the devaluations of China, of Ja
pan, of many, many different countries, they’re making it impossible for our c
ompanies to compete with them because we don’t have leaders that know how to s
ay to China, "Don’t do that. Don’t do that. Because if you do that, we’re 
going to put a big fat tax on you. Don’t do that." And you know what? If you s
aid that, they wouldn’t do it. If you have the right messenger…






I’m really focused on one very big election, one very important election, and 
there are some pretty good elections. I’m not watching any of them in particul
ar. I’ll be watching them on Tuesday night. But I’ll be out there; we’ll b
e out voting.
But the election that I’m watching is the election for the presidency of the U
nited States. That is going to be in my opinion this will be truly one of the mo
st important elections we’ve ever had in this country. We’re so far behind. 
And we cannot go another four years with incompetent leadership.






That’s a good question. Okay. So, Simon and Schuster came up to me. They wante
d to do a book. They wanted to do on success and how do you do this and how do y
ou build it and that’s what the book is largely about but we talked so much ab
out the country. And I said, "I’ll do it but we have to talk about the country
."
What happened is they sent this incredible photographer up to do a book cover, d
o to a picture. And he did some great…photos. I’m smiling. I’m happy. I lo
ok good. Everything was fine. And then he took one where I wasn’t like really 
thinking about a photo and then it turned out to be a nasty picture. And then th
e book was written and the title was given and the only really terrible picture 
I had was that one. It’s a terrible, horrible, nasty picture. But when you’r
e talking about "Crippled America" and you’re talking about all of the problem
s we have, I can’t have a big smiley face up there. So that’s how we picked 
it. We picked the worst photo taken of me.
I would have loved to have a beautiful smiling picture but somehow that doesn’
t go with the title of the book or frankly the content of the book, and actually
 Simon and Schuster agreed with me. Okay?






Are the other Republicans afraid to debate? Well, some of them should be.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.


…I was telling some of the folks backstage, I never ever thought we’d do thi
s well this fast. This has been so incredible. What’s happened all over. What
s happened in Iowa. It’s been really incredible.
We’ve had some amazing results and they continue to come in.
Got a little shake-up in Iowa. I don’t know what’s going on.
Somebody said "Are you going straight to New Hampshire?" Now, I love New Hampshi
re. We’ve got great numbers. 38 to 12. That’s good.
But we fell a little behind in Iowa, and some people are saying how can it be. A
nd I come out and I was just telling a group we have the biggest crowds, we have
 the most enthusiastic crowds.
Everybody said and it’s very true. I mean, look at this. Somebody else would c
ome, they’d have like 50 people and they wouldn’t need this room. Believe me
.
But everybody said without question in every poll – this isn’t just here –
 that the people that are with Trump are with Trump. They don’t go anywhere. T
hey’re staying. It’s true. I see it. I see it.
And we’ve seen it.
You know, a couple of times I say "Well, that could be the end." Then they do so
mething and I’m 10 points up. It’s the craziest thing, right? But we’ll ta
ke it.
But they say the people are with – we have the most loyal people by far. Every
body says it.
The other thing they say is for leadership, number one. Very important, right? D
on’t you think? Leadership.
I mean, when leadership is number one – they say on the economy without questi
on number one and by a lot.
So you know it’s great.
I thought I’d talk a little bit and I want to take some questions. You know, w
e can do a little question and answer. Right?
We have all these cameras going back here. And you know, it’s always tough whe
n you’re on live television all the time.
Look, we have 10 topics. Right? How many topics? 10? How many different ways can
 you talk about the 10 topics?
The bottom line is we want results. We want to get it done. But when you’re on
 live television all the time all those people back there and the cameras are on
 and then you’re talking about immigration and you’re talking about the wall
 because we’re going to have a wall and we’re going to stop illegal immigrat
ion.
But we talk about trade and we talk about repealing Obamacare. And we talk about
 all the things that we talk about.
But you know, you have these points and we could talk about them in different fo
rms, in different ways and give different examples. But in the end, it’s reall
y about results. Isn’t it? It’s really about results.
And you can only talk about the same subjects on live television so many differe
nt ways.
I talk about industry. I talk about commerce. I talk about how we’re losing ou
r jobs to all of these different countries. And I give different examples.
But it’s still going to be a certain number of subjects.
I talk about Second Amendment. I talk about Fourteenth Amendment. We talk about 
amendments.
You know, that Second Amendment, they want to take it away from you. They really
 want to do things and it’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. A
t least with me it’s not going to happen. That I can tell you.
So I said today you know we’ll talk for a little while but I want to do some q
uestions and answers. I want you people to excite me for a change. Is that okay?
 I want to be excited. And so we’re going to have some fun. We’re going to d
o that.
A few things – I want to bring up a few new subjects.
So, immigration, we’re going to be doing a very strong number. It’s killing 
us. It’s killing us. And it’s bad for the economy. It’s bad for – all of
 this illegal immigration.


And I have to tell you legal – you come in and we’re going to have a good ti
me and you’re going to be there and you’re going to do great – and visas 
 maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and we’ll do som
ething, we’re not going to hurt our economy in any way, shape or form. We’re
 going to make our economy much, much stronger.
But we’re also going to get jobs for people that are here. People with us. We
re going to get jobs. We’re going to get jobs.
But the illegal immigration – you know, I did this and I made my determination
 – I took a deep breath. Because I’ll tell you what, it takes courage to say
 I’m going to run for president. It really does, especially in my case where I
 have a great business and I love my business. I love doing it. I may never even
 see it.
I mean, I own some of the great properties in the world. Doral in Miami. I may n
ever see it again… Turnberry in Scotland, one of the greatest homes of the Bri
tish Open and all of that. I may never see it again.
All of these incredible places that I have.
But more than that, it takes courage because when you do it, you’re putting yo
urself out there beyond anything that anybody’s done and it even takes courage
 for a politician to do it.
Now at some point some of these guys have to leave. Don’t we agree? It’s get
ting ridiculous.
Because like tomorrow night we’re having a debate, and I wish we had more time
 for the debate. Not in terms of three hours because who wants three hours? You 
know, I could stand up for 20 hours if I had to but who wants to watch that long
?
Hillary’s debate essentially lasted for an hour and a half and I was – oh 
 it was – you couldn’t watch it.
You have Hillary against a socialist/communist. And honestly, he’s not going t
o win. Just so you understand…He’s not going to win and neither is she…
Well, she’s being totally protected because in theory she shouldn’t even be 
allowed to run. She’s being protected.
It’s a tough game and it’s a nasty game but she’s being totally protected.
But she’s going to beat him and you still have one more of these guys. O’Mal
ley. So he’ll be out quickly, I guess. I don’t know what’s he doing. What 
do they do when they have zero? They have zero.
And I wouldn’t say it against our folks. But they’ve treated me – some of 
the zeroes have treated me so nastily, right? Because they want to start controv
ersy and they want to try pick up some points.
And you know what? I’m not going to even mention names. Usually I do. I love d
oing it. But everybody that’s hit me so far has gone down. They’ve gone down
. And they’ve gone down bigly.
And a couple of the ones and zeroes – they’re the ones that hit the hardest.
 I mean, they’re like desperate people. But they hit.
One of them has a zero with an arrow pointing to the left. That means less than 
zero. And I don’t understand. What does it mean? I assume it’s a typo but ma
ybe not.
But when you look at the things that are happening with our country – the trad
e situation with not just China – I talk about China all the time because that
’s the main abuser, that’s the biggest abuser. The numbers are astronomical.
 Almost $400 billion a year in terms of imbalance. Think of it – $400 billion 
a year.
And they send stuff over here but we can’t send stuff over there. They tax us.
 Big tax.
A friend of mine can’t get stuff over there. The tax is so big. Big tax.
Somebody bought an airplane in China here. Can’t get it over there. Spoiled gu
y. Rich guy. Bought a beautiful plane. Can’t get it over there because the tax
 is so massive that he’s now selling in this country because China won’t let
 him have the plane and he has to pay a tax.
I won’t even tell you what the tax is. It’s so astronomical that I don’t e
ven believe them myself. So I’m not going to say it because those guys will sa
y "Well, he was wrong." All I can tell you is it’s a massive tax. Like you don
’t buy planes here because if you do, you won’t be able to get them back in.
And here, we accept all of their products.
So we have almost a $400 billion trade imbalance with China.
We have a $70 billion trade imbalance with Japan.
We have a – you know, with all that’s going on in the South China Sea and yo
u look where we have a destroyer – a relatively small ship – over there, I d
on’t know if I’d want to be the captain of that ship right now. But they’r
e being sort of mocked and scorned and a lot of bad things can happen.


But you know, we have an agreement with Japan and I love Japan. I love China. I 
love all these people. But their leaders are killing us because they’re smarte
r, sharper, more cunning.
The leaders of Mexico are killing us at the border and in trade. They’re takin
g so many of our companies.
Even Nabisco – my Oreos – they’re taking Nabisco. Right? I’m never eatin
g Oreos. I tell it all the time. They had some Oreos before on the plane and I s
aid I don’t want to touch them. Bring them back. I yelled out to bring them ba
ck.
But I’m not happy. They’re leaving Chicago and they’re moving their big pl
ant to Mexico.
So when you see this happening, we have to stop it.
And I’m not going to beat around the bush and "Oh, let’s talk and let’s be
 nice and let’s say – " Nobody can do it like I do it. Nobody. Honestly, nob
ody.
We can – I’m not saying I’m perfect because I’m not perfect. Nobody’s 
perfect…
Now, nobody’s perfect. But I’ll tell you when it comes to that stuff I’m r
eally – there’s nobody better.
Carl Icahn endorsed me the other day. He’s one of the great traders, one of th
e great dealmakers. He says Trump, Trump. And he’s not somebody that just do i
t. He wants somebody that knows what they’re doing. He understand.
You talk about corporate inversions and all of the things that have been going o
n.
Corporate inversions. You know, many of the companies in this country have trill
ions of dollars cumulatively. They think $2.5 trillion overseas right now. They 
can’t get it in.
And everybody agrees that we should bring it in. The Democrats and the Republica
ns. They’ve agreed for years. They can’t make a deal because they have no le
ader.
It’s not like "Oh gee, we disagree on Obamacare. Or we disagree on something e
lse."
Although I must tell you many of the Democrats that I speak to because I’m fri
endly with all of them. I’m friendly with like Republicans. I get a long with 
everybody.
You know, everybody says "Oh, you won’t be a unifier". I’ll be the greatest 
unifier of all. Why is Obama a unifier?
But I will tell you many of the Democrats who voted for Obamacare would never ha
ve done it now and were lied to 28 times. Right? "You can keep your doctor, keep
 your plan, keep your this, everything’s going to be great." Turned out to be 
a total lie. 28 different times that they know of and they wouldn’t have done 
it.
But when you look at what’s happening with corporations and the highest tax 
 we pay the highest tax anywhere in the world of any country – but they have 
trillions of dollars overseas. And these are great companies in many cases. They
 have thousands of employees. They can’t get their money back.
And the reason is bureaucracy. It’s very hard.
And also big reason the tax is too high. They don’t want to bring $1 million b
ack and pay $300,000 or $350,000 tax. They’d rather leave it over there.
And if they bring it back, they’ll be using it to invest in our country. I mea
n, a lot of good things will happen.
I happen to believe it’s more than $2.5 trillion.
But here’s the thing and I use it because it’s so incredible. Here’s the t
hing. It’s not controversial. It’s not like you have the Republicans here an
d you have – everybody agrees. They’ve agreed you know that for 2.5, 3 years
. They can’t make a deal.
And now what’s happening and this will be the next great story is companies ar
e leaving the United States – two reasons – lower taxes but also to get thei
r money. They’ve got billions of dollars overseas. They’re leaving our count
ry in order to get their money and in order to pay lower tax.
And you’re talking about one company I know of – I don’t know how much the
y’ve written about it – but you’re talking about 6,000 jobs just one compa
ny. You’re talking about potentially thousands of companies.
And I say it, in the old days, they’d leave New York. People would move down a
nd companies would move down to Florida or they’d move to Texas or they’d le
ave New Jersey, where taxes are quite high, and they’d move to another locatio
n. Right? Now, they leave our country and they go to other countries. That’s w
hat’s happened.
In the world of the Internet and the world of very fast jets, it’s a different
 world out there.
And there’s no loyalty. They’re paid a lot of money to make a lot of money f
or their shareholders and some of them are actually foreign; they’d like to mo
ve back to these countries.
They bring in executives that are from Ireland, from other places. And they don
t mind. They don’t have loyalty to the United States.
So my plan, my tax plan, is something I’m very proud of. We’re going to solv
e corporate inversion.
I’ll tell you what, we will have that money back – if I get elected presiden
t, that money will be back so fast your head will spin. Nobody else will be able
 to do it. Nobody.


Honestly, nobody else even knows about it. The other candidates, most of them do
n’t even know about it. It’s not their wheelhouse. Okay? It’s not their th
ing. It’s not their thing.
Their thing is getting re-elected. That’s what they’re good at. They get re-
elected. And they make promises and they’re all talk and they’re no action. 
And the same things happen with these politicians. It’s always the same.
So we have so many different things and what I’ve done with our tax plan, whic
h something I’m very proud of, we’ve brought it down to a few groups.
Because right now, you have to go out – people who aren’t doing well go out 
and hire companies to help them with their tax plans. They’ll pay $500, $1,000
 because it’s so complicated.
And we’re going to make it nice and simple.
And we’re getting rid of carried interest, which is something that a lot of ri
ch hedge fund guys love. But we’re getting rid of it. They don’t love me so 
much anymore. But I don’t care.
And we’re getting rid of a lot of things.
So we’re going to have a nice simple tax return.
Somebody said "Oh, why isn’t everybody paying?"
You know, 40% – a big percentage – will not pay any tax at all. People that 
are doing badly.
They said – well, I won’t use the candidates’ name because I don’t want 
to insult any candidate when they can’t defend themselves. They said "We want 
everybody to pay at least something." And I said, "I agree."
Here’s the problem. From the standpoint of bookkeeping, from the standpoint of
 bureaucracy, you’re talking about millions and millions of returns. You’re 
talking about building the IRS even bigger and it’s a monster. And I could cut
 it down way down. And the money that you’re talking about is far less than th
e administrative costs.
So I said, "I agree. Except for one thing from a practical standpoint, it’s to
o much. Most of these people aren’t paying anyway."
What I want to do is bring our jobs back from China, bring our jobs back from Me
xico, bring fairness to our deals as an example with Japan.
I was in Los Angeles. Ships – the biggest ships you’ve ever seen. Cars are p
ouring off into this country. Made in Japan. We give them practically nothing.
The balance is so bad. The imbalance is so bad. And then we have all the strikes
.
See, what our people don’t know and only somebody that wrote "The Art of the D
eal" or does this stuff. It’s natural. It’s like a great athlete. Like a Jac
k Nicklaus. He was always able to sink that putt. Right? You know, he’s just b
etter. And you have athletes – very few – but there are some people that hav
e a certain ability.
A lot of people don’t even know we have all the power. We have all the power i
n China.
You know, we owe right now China and Japan equally $1.5 – think of this – tr
illion. $1.5 trillion. Think of this. They take our business and in the case of 
Japan, mostly cars. But they take our business. They take our jobs. Factories cl
ose down all over the place. And we owe them money. Right? It’s a magic act. F
or them not for us. For us it’s a horror show.
It’s going to end. It’s going to end.
And people like Carl Icahn and the people like the best negotiators – I know t
he best negotiators in the world. Some I think are horrible people. I’ll be ho
nest with you. I don’t care. Do you care if they’re horrible people? Who car
es?
Now, Carl happens to be actually a very nice guy but he’s a brilliant negotiat
or and a tough cookie and he’s built a fortune. He doesn’t want money. He do
esn’t want to say, "Oh, give me $200,000 a year in government money." He wants
 to do it. He’s proud to do it. He wants to help the country. And it’s so ea
sy for him.
For instance, if I say "Carl, do me a favor. The trade deal we have with China i
s so unfair we’re losing $400 billion a year. Carl, do me a favor. Make it fai
r." I don’t have to give him a big speech. I don’t have to give him a big sp
eech.
I mean, I can tell you that within a very, very short period of time, things wil
l straighten out. I mean, things will straighten out and it’s going to be our 
benefit.
But think of it, if we’re losing that kind of money – that imbalance. It’s
 an imbalance. Some people will say "That’s not really a loss." It is a loss. 
If we have that kind of imbalance and suppose you brought it back to zero or eve
n if we lost $100 billion a year, that’s a lot of money. Believe me, I couldn
t sleep.


If I brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right?
But suppose we brought it back to $100 billion or we brought it back to zero, do
 you know what that means to this country? Do you know the kind of money you’r
e talking about? Then jobs will start coming back, lots of good things would hap
pen. Lots of great things would happen.
And maybe our babies who have all these toys all over the place, maybe they’ll
 have 75% and maybe they’ll like them better. Maybe they’ll be better. And t
hey’ll be manufactured here.
Whenever I order television sets, I ordered thousands and thousands of televisio
n sets a year for different jobs. And whenever I order them, they all come from 
South Korea. They make all the television – other than Sony but Sony has sort 
of lost its way a little bit. Sony is Japan.
But South Korea – LG, Samsung. I don’t get bids from American. I’d love to
. I’d love to.
George Will said there’s a company in South Carolina that makes television. I 
said where are they? I’d like to have a good name too by the way. It’s impor
tant. You know, when somebody’s paying you a fortune for a hotel room, it’s 
nice to see a good name. Right? Do we agree?
Well, it’s a company in South Carolina but they don’t make them there; they 
assemble them. They’ll order parts that come in and they’ll assemble them. B
ut much different.
But I’d love it if we made them.
But you take South Korea. We defend South Korea for essentially nothing. You hav
e the maniac over in North Korea that nobody ever talks about by the way. Now, h
e really has nuclear weapons and we don’t talk about him.
We made the worst deal ever made with Iran. Right? The worst.
These are the people that represent – these people are incompetent. Or stupid.
 Somebody said, "You shouldn’t say stupid. It’s not nice." But it’s true. 
They’re stupid. I think. I mean, I think. Unless I don’t know is there somet
hing going on that we don’t know about?
Think of it. Point after point, we lost. We lost everything. We’ve given them 
$150 billion. Hard to believe. They don’t have to develop – I was telling so
mebody they don’t have to develop nuclear weapon; they can buy it.
What the hell why should they develop it? They can buy it. And now all of a sudd
en they’re going into Syria. They got so much money. They’re a terrorist sta
te. They’re going into all of these different places. We’re fighting them in
 Yemen and yet we’re making a deal with them.
So why don’t you say "Hey, Yemen out"? Our prisoners – I want them back. I w
ant them back. I don’t want them over there. I want them back.
And all we have to do, very simple, is if you have the right messenger. I’m th
e right messenger. You know, I’ve gotten to a point where I have to be braggad
ocious. It’s terrible. Right? Because I can’t be so nice and say "We can all
 do a wonderful job". People can’t do those kind of stuff.
For instance, the wall. I said, I guarantee you that we’re going to build a wa
ll. It’s going to be a real wall. We’re going to have people come through an
d they’re going to come through legally. Or they’re going to come through wi
th visas, which is a safe way, if we need it.
And we want people to come through. I want people to come through. I don’t wan
t to say no.
But we have at least 11 million – you know, the scary thing is nobody has any 
idea how many. You know, we’ve been hearing that number for years. You know, l
ike 11 million. We have no idea. I spoke to one of the top people. They have no 
idea. Might be 5 million. Might also be 32 million. Could be 50 [million]…
But we have to get them out. We have to – look, it’s harsh.
Dwight Eisenhower – we all like Dwight. Right? Remember the expression. Right?
I go remember he got elected – "I like Ike". How could he be bad? All right? A
nd I think he was a nicer general than MacArthur and Patton. And I like Ike as a
 president but I love Patton and I love General MacArthur. I love them. And we
re going to find ourselves a Patton and we’re going to find ourselves because
 we have a lot of smart guys in our military and women. We’re going to find ou
rselves a Patton…But we’re going to find a Patton and we’re going to find 
a MacArthur. And I’m really good at that. We’re going to find great people.
And I’ve told this story where I watched these generals go on television – t
hey shouldn’t be on television. They shouldn’t be talking. You know? They sh
ouldn’t be talking. They should be doing.


And they asked a certain general, I’m not going to insult him. It was like a m
onth and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said here’s general so and so, 
one of the top, top, top people. I said what’s he doing on television? And he
s saying "Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out."
By the way, they took the oil that I said take. Remember I said "Take the oil"? 
Always take the oil! They’re being funded by the oil that I said take.
I don’t want their damned oil. But you know what? It turned out to be another 
benefit of having it. Take the oil. And we didn’t do it.
We shouldn’t have been in Iraq in the first place. And I said that in 2003. Sh
ouldn’t have been there.
We totally destabilized the Middle East. We totally blew it.
But we were there. Then Obama announces because he’s so predictable "We are le
aving on a certain date in a year."
Right? I couldn’t believe. I was sitting there thinking "Did he really say tha
t?"
He said "We will have all troops out by a certain date." Right? Did he say that?
I said "No, no, tell me please."
…Oh, you know what another one I got high marks on from every poll? Military. 
They think I’ll be the best in the military because they say I – you know, I
 always say I’ll be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I will.
 But everybody knows that, especially God. Everybody knows that.
But you know what I’ll be? I’ll be the great at the military. I’ll be so g
ood. And I’ll know when – and I’ll build our military so strong, so tough,
 so incredible, nobody’s going to mess around. We’re never going to have to 
use it. We’re never going to have to use it.
And I’m going to take care of our vets. Believe me, they’re our greatest peo
ple and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal immigrants. I’m goin
g to take care of our vets.
So go back. So the world is unpredictable.
I made a business deal a year ago. And the guy – oh, I beat him so badly. Aye,
 it was so beautiful. It was a beautiful thing. It was like a picture. For me, i
t was like a picture. That’s my own problem. I guess. But to me it’s like a 
painting when you could do something like that.
So I made this deal and it was great. And they called. They did a story on me re
cently and it was a nice story. And I said, I hope they don’t call this guy. T
hey ended up calling this guy "What do you think about Trump?" And he said but i
n a respectful way, he said "He won because he was so damn unpredictable. We don
’t know what the hell he was going to do." That’s a positive. That’s a pos
itive.
I mean, if you’re a poker player and you’re predictable, you’re not going 
home with much money. Okay?
But it was really – I said, "That’s not nice what he said." First, I said "T
hat’s not nice. I’m unpredictable." Then I said, "Wait a minute. He meant th
at as a compliment." And I called him. I said, "What did you mean by that?" He s
aid "I think that’s the greatest compliment I can pay. We could not figure you
 out. You came at us from 15 different angles."
So with Obama, when he announces that we’re leaving Iraq on a certain date, we
 shouldn’t have been there but once you announced the bad guys – you know ho
w they say the surge worked? You know why the surge worked? You know why? Becaus
e the bad guys all moved back. They said, "Hey, what do we have to get killed fo
r?" I mean, these people don’t mind being killed, can you believe it? But they
 said "If we don’t have to, let’s not." So they moved back.
And they said, "Hey, they’re leaving in -" What was the date? Do you remember 
the date? Specific date to the day. "We will have all troops out. I’m a great 
president."
So the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they jus
t said, "Oh, you’re leaving in a year. Going to have all the troops out. Let
s go back. Why do we have to be shot at for the next year? And what do we have 
to do because if we do well maybe he’ll change his mind and stay. So let’s l
et him think he has this great victory with the surge." Right? "The surge worked
!"
What happened was that everybody pulled back. They said, "Let’s wait."
Now we leave because of a lack of leadership. We leave and boom it comes apart. 
That’s what happened. That was the surge.
Everybody talk so much – "Oh, the surge was so great." The surge was great bec
ause everybody knew – they knew what was happening. They knew it was going to 
happen. They knew we were leaving even through Bush.
I mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. They were fed up. So they pulled ba
ck and they said, "Let’s get them out." Everybody wanted to leave.
Now, I would have done it differently. Even if I wanted to leave and I might or 
I might not. I won’t even say.




People say, "Mr. Trump, what’s your attitude on ISIS? When will you attack the
m? Where?
I say "You know, I don’t want to talk – I have a real chance of winning. I d
on’t want to tell you what my attitude. I want them to guess. I don’t really
 want to tell you."
I mean, the one bad thing about our system, we have a system that got flaws. Let
’s face it. Hey, look at our leadership, it’s got flaws.
But you know the one bad thing? When I gave that answer, they say – although s
ome people – I see it here – some people say "We love that. We love that." B
ut when I give that answer, some people say "Oh, Trump doesn’t know. He doesn
t know. He didn’t give an answer as to exactly what he’s going to do. Exac
tly what he’s going to do."
And I know exactly what I’m going to do and eventually after I was asked the q
uestion by 10 different reporters, all of whom are here tonight by the way, I sa
id, "You know, here’s the problem. If I don’t give the answer, I’m not goi
ng to win because they write so incredibly negatively. So if I don’t give the 
answer, I’m not going to win." They’re going to say "Trump wouldn’t give u
s the answer."
They don’t know it’s unpredictability. They don’t know it’s strategy.
And I said for a period of time like a month, I said "I don’t want to tell you
 because I actually have a chance because from the time I announced, I’ve been
 on the top of the polls, almost at the top. You know, we’re doing well."
Iowa, will you get your numbers up please? Would you get these numbers up? I pro
mise you I would do such a good job.
First of all, I am a great Christian and I am. I am. Remember that.
And I do well with the evangelicals. But the evangelicals left me down a little 
bit just last month. I don’t know what I did.
But I am a great Christian. I’m a believer and I believe in the Bible. And I e
ven brought my Bible a month ago to a group signed by my mother, Mary, and with 
the address and the date – I won’t tell you what date it was because possibl
y you’d think I’m younger than that. But she didn’t want anybody taking my
 Bible because that was very important to her.
So cute. She has the address, has the date. But I said to myself, "You know – 
"
By the way, before I forget, will you get the numbers up Iowa please? This is ri
diculous. I mean, what is my competition? In all fairness, in all fairness, what
 is my competition?
Do you think these guys – I’m not going to say Carson – I’m not going to
 say Rubio, who really is way down – I mean, I am second. It’s not like it
s terrible. But I don’t like being second. Second is terrible to me.
But do you think that Ben is going to go to China? These guys are fierce. Like t
hey’d come into your office. I’ve made many deals with China. I’ve had gre
at victories in terms of deals with China. They come into your office. There’s
 no "Hello. How are you? It’s a wonderful day." They come in – "We want deal
." There’s no games. I do this for a living. I’m really good at it, folks. R
eally good.
And you know, when you talk about energy, I’ll tell you one thing, everybody a
grees – oh, do I have energy. Oh. I toss and turn thinking about how I’m goi
ng to make the best deal for you folks. I’ll be tossing and turning. I will be
 tossing and turning. You’re going to have so many deals that is so good for y
ou. We’re going to have numbers are going to be so good.
I always joke you may get tired of them but then I always take that back because
 nobody gets tired of winning.
We don’t win anymore. You know, think about it. Do we win at all? Ever?
We lose with the military. ISIS beats us. Everybody.
We lose with trade.
When are we going to come back and say, "We beat China" on a deal? When are we g
oing to come back, "We beat Japan"?
Do you know that everybody said "Oh, Japan. They have so power over us. They hav
e so much power because we owe them $1.5 trillion and they send all those cars."
They have no power. If we ever say, "Listen, if you’re not going to treat us f
airly, we don’t want your cars anymore", they’d go out of business, folks, t
hey’re gone.
Same thing with China. China is not even doing that well. But they just lowered,
 they just devalued their currency. The biggest in two decades. And the reason t
hey did it, they could never thought but we have so many other problems that the
y felt, "Oh wow, we can get away with this and it’s going to make it impossibl
e."
Did you see the results yesterday of Caterpillar Tractor? Horrible. Because they
’re not getting stuff out because everybody – Japan and China in particular 
– is devaluing their currency. That’s their number one weapon. And the stupi
d trade deal that we’re making doesn’t even cover it. That’s their number 
one weapon and the trade that we’re making doesn’t cover it.


So I only say this and you know what? People might say "It’s terrible. He’s 
a terrible person, a terrible human being. But I’m going to vote for him anywa
ys." Okay, that’s fine. I’m actually a nice person.
I always say this – nobody can do this stuff better than me. And I know all th
e guys I’m running against. They’re wonderful people. Some of them I really 
like. But who cares?
I was talking to one of the candidates the other day. I was talking about corpor
ate inversions and they didn’t even know what the hell I was talking. They had
 no idea. It’s not their thing.
And unless we stop all of the things that are going with other countries and unl
ess we make great trade deals, we’re being eaten alive.
That’s why when you look at the phony numbers, we have 100 million people in o
ur workforce that aren’t working. Our real unemployment rate is probably 30%. 
It’s not 5.3%. That was done for politicians so they’d look good. It’s not
 5.3%. How can you have 5.3% when you have 100 million people?
You look for a job. If you’re a young guy, that handsome young guy with the re
d hair, right there…but if he comes out and he goes into the workforce and he 
looks for a job and he goes through college and does well and then he can’t ge
t a job and when he gives up because at some point after months you give up, the
y essentially consider you employed. It’s the most ridiculous thing.
We have a tremendous – tens of millions of people in that position. They can
t find jobs. They’re good people. They want to work. They can’t. But it’s
 not reflected in the real numbers because the politicians want to look good.
So let me just before we talk some questions, I’m going to talk about somethin
g I’ve never really talked about it onstage but we should talk about it. It’
s called Super PACs.
It’s one of the great scams of all time. It’s one of the great scams.
So we sent out – I think I had – and it’s not me. People set them up. And 
I don’t know. Maybe they’re setting up for my benefit.
Let’s take me. A guy sees me, likes me, sets up a Super PAC. I don’t talk to
 him. I don’t do anything.
I think we had either 9 or 5 or 11. We don’t even know. They’re all over the
 place. Trump, Trump – one of them called The Art of the Deal PAC after the bo
ok.
They have all these PACs. And the money comes in. And what do they do with the m
oney? I don’t know.
And we aren’t supposed to call them or anything. Okay.
So, we wrote a letter – a legal letter – to I think either 9 or 11 last week
 saying we don’t want their money, send it back because again, what do they do
 with it? If some guy that’s having a hard time all of a sudden has $2 million
 sitting in a Super PAC, do you think he’s going to take ads for Trump? Maybe 
and maybe not.
So we sent them a – it’s a scam, Super PACs, a scam. It’s a disgrace that 
we have. A disgrace.
And I’ll tell you I read a number with, as an example, with Ben. Ben is paying
 70 to almost 80 cents on the dollar to raise money. So when you read he has all
 this money, he’s paying a lot of money and that’s not reflected yet. So whe
n you hear they raised $20 million, they’re paying – now think of it, who pa
ys – the number I actually heard was 79 but you know these guys will check the
m so I’m telling you it may be off but you all know it’s a lot.
I think they said, 79 cents on the dollar. Think of it. To raise the money, they
 take 79 cents before they get to use the money for what it was supposed to be. 
Somebody is making a fortune.
I know in Romney’s campaign, a couple of guys walked away with millions and mi
llions of dollars. Millions. They became rich raising money. It’s better than 
being a real estate broker.
For the people and real estate brokers, they take these massive percentages of t
he money they raise. It’s a scam. It’s a scam.
Now, in Ben’s case, his Super PAC is running Iowa. And let me tell you, the pe
ople that are running that Super PAC, even if it comes in small donations, those
 are the real bosses. Those are the bosses.
In the case of Jeb Bush, you’re not supposed to deal with these Super PACs. Ok
ay? So, it was in the Wall Street Journal the other day. He has a Super PAC fund
raiser or something in a hotel and right next to it, he had his campaign ballroo
m. Did you read that? Two ballrooms. One here, one here, right next to each othe
r by coincidence, of course. They’re not supposed to be coordination. They’r
e not supposed to be talking. They’re right next to each other. And that’s n
othing compared to what some are doing.
It’s a scam and it should be stopped. And it’s unfair to somebody like me th
at is spending my own money.


And what happened and I haven’t talked about this before but I’m seeing what
’s going on. It’s horrible what’s going on. What happened is the last time
 they had the Super PACs, I actually think there was sort of a wall. You know, t
hey called it the wall.
And this is a wall too. Won’t be as good as the one I’m going to build but i
t’s a wall.
But it was a wall and they didn’t deal.
I mean, even though like Bush has a friend of his running his Super PAC, I’m s
ure they never talk. I’m sure. What do you think the chances are that they tal
k? 100% or 99%? 100%. I’d say 100%. I’d say 100%. Only a foolish person woul
d say 99%. But whatever.
They’re not supposed to. But they put a friend in there. They put other people
 in there. They put whoever. And that’s the way it works.
And in some cases, I hear in Ben’s case, I hear in other cases, they’re lite
rally running.
I mean, had Walker done this in all fairness because he had money in the Super P
AC but he had no money in his campaign and he was unable to figure out this is w
hat they’re all doing. That’s why he’s out of the race because he couldn
t figure it out.
The whole thing with Super PACs is a horrible, horrible scam. So I sent letters 
last week to as many as we could find. They’re all over the place. We want you
 to close the Super PAC. We want nothing to do with it. We don’t want to get a
dvertisements. We don’t want any of the money. Go home and ideally give the mo
ney back. They don’t even have to give the money back from what I understand. 
They can keep it. They’ll probably if they actually raised money for me, they
ll say "What a horrible thing he just said. I think we’re going to support s
omebody else." They could do that.
But the Super PACs have total control over the people running for office. Total.
 Nothing over me. Nothing.
I feel it’s very unfair. I feel it’s a very unfair situation.
Now, if they want, they could have full disclosure and everything…But what are
 they doing with this whole thing?
And I think it makes dishonest people out of people that might be honest.
But the Super PACs are controlling your candidates – some more than others. So
me are unbelievable.
And what the press should really do is take a look at how much money is left. Wh
en you read that Ben raised $1, how much is left after he pays all of the consul
tants and all of these people, how much is left to spend in the campaign. You’
ll be amazed. I mean, it’s so little.
Bush, it’s the same thing.
And I’ll go over – there are other names. I know every one of them. But it
s a horrible thing that’s taking place.
And again, last cycle, at least they went through the motions. Now, they’re no
t even going through the motions. They’re not even going through.
And just remember when I have to negotiate with companies to keep them in this c
ountry so they build jobs here and they build their plants here and their factor
ies here and they do all of the things here, when I have to do that, you know, J
ohn Deere, I paid them tens of millions of dollars. You can even check. I said t
o John Deere, "I want an endorsement." I don’t know if they’ll give me an en
dorsement. I’ll tell you if they don’t they’re not so smart. I guarantee n
o other person gave John Deere – I mean, I bought probably more than $10 milli
on worth of John Deere equipments. I love it. You know why? Iowa. Iowa. I love i
t. I love it.
When we can. By the way, it’s a great company. It’s a great company. But I b
uy a lot of stuff from John Deere because I have a lot of big developments that 
really require John Deere type equipment. I don’t have to buy it from them. I 
could buy it from others. But I want to steer it to them when I can.
But we have to do something to clean up this political mess because it’s crook
ed stuff. It’s crooked stuff. And it’s got to stop.
And it’s very unfair to people who go out and do it the way you’re supposed 
to do it, including me. I think I’m the only one that’s self-funding. I’m 
the only one putting up my own money, other than – I know it’s precious – 
people write in to DonaldJTrump.com or whatever and they send me checks like $20
. I keep saying the woman for $7.50, $50, $100. I don’t want their money. But 
if you send it back it’s totally insulting.
I mean, they always write letters too. They write these beautiful letters – "M
r. Trump, I can’t afford much and I know you don’t need it but I’m sending
 $50 because that’s so important what you’re saying about the country." It
s beautiful.
I mean, I’ve seen such beautiful letters. And if I send it back, there’s no 
letter I can write that’s not going to be insulting to those people, really. "
Dear Mr. So and So or Mrs. So and So, I don’t need your money and thanks a lot
 but we’re going to do it ourselves." If I got that back, I’d say "Who the h
ell does he think he is?"


So we take that and it’s something that I think is important.
So I always preface it by saying I don’t consider that funding but I’m self-
funding my campaign and I’m getting ready to put up millions, millions.
And something I’m very proud of that I think it’s great and it’s you know 
really great, it hasn’t gotten very much publicity, hasn’t gotten much publi
city, but I have spent less money than any other candidate. Okay? By far. I thin
k. I don’t know, probably a couple of guys that have nothing so they just go a
round…But I was told that I spend less. And I have the best results because in
 most polls I’m number one.
Now, until Iowa came along, I said "every poll", and then Iowa – what the hell
 are you people doing to me? You know? You know?
I’m telling you. They said, "Why don’t you skip Iowa?" They told me that. Ev
erybody said "Skip Iowa". All of the political geniuses.
A man just interviewed me back there, great reporter. He’s actually a great re
porter. Of course, if he writes a bad story, I won’t say that. But he is. He
s a great reporter.
And he said, "Would you ever think of maybe skipping Iowa going right to New Ham
pshire? And then you’d go to South Carolina" where I’m leading by massive 
 yeah, you’ve got to see the rallies there. They’re incredible.
"But you’d go to New Hampshire. You’d go to South Carolina. You go to Nevada
. You go to the SCC."
I said I can’t do that because I have such an unbelievable relationship with t
he people from Iowa that I think we’re going to win. I really do. I believe it
. I believe it.
And I don’t want to skip Iowa. I think we’re going to do well. I think we’
re going to do great with evangelicals. I think a lot of things are going to com
e out over the next period of time that are not going to be so good for our oppo
nents, honestly, and I think I’m going to do great with the evangelicals becau
se I am the real deal. I will tell you that. I’m the real deal.
So I told these political pros, you know, I hate to say it but the last long num
ber of elections on the Republican circuit, the person that won Iowa did not get
 the nomination. Okay? I want to take away some of your muster. You understand t
hat.
So could we do – and please do me a favor? Let me win Iowa. And then I’m goi
ng to win, I’m telling you we’re going to win New Hampshire, and we’re goi
ng to win South Carolina.
A great poll just came out on North Carolina just a little while. A PPP poll. It
 was great. Some of you saw that. But great poll.
But we’re going to go on and we’re going to win. We’re going to win.
And actually, one of the pundits – because you have some smart pundits and som
e very, very dumb pundits. A lot of pundits said "He’ll never run. He’s not 
going to run." They’re still trying to recover.
But one of the very smart one says "If Trump wins Iowa, it’s over." It’s int
eresting because it will go right through because everywhere else is so great.
And I thought it was good here. Come on. Okay, so that’s the end of that.
But I want to tell you, will you – I refuse to say "Get your asses in gear." I
 will not say that. I will not say it. I will not say it because I don’t want 
to use anything that’s even a little bit off.
So will you please do me a favor and work with my people and go out on Feb. 1sta
nd vote and give us a victory?
And if I win Iowa, we’re going to run the whole table and we are going to make
 such great deals and we’re going to have such a great military and we’re go
ing to take care of our health care without that crazy Obamacare that’s a nigh
tmare.
So, I’m sticking with you people. I’m going to spend money here. I have a gr
eat team over here. And I will tell you I’m going to spend a lot of time here 
and I really want to win Iowa and I think we should and it’s so important. And
 you know, it’s about time that Iowa could have a victory and let that person 
go onto a total victory. Okay? Not like over the last – right?
So, I love you all. I mean, we’re having fun. But I love you all. But I do mea
n it. I’m going to stay here. We’re going to work really hard.
When I heard the poll today, they said "What are you going to do?" I said, "I’
m going to work harder in Iowa." I’m not leaving Iowa. I’m not leaving Iowa.
Now, if I lose Iowa, I will never speak to you people again. That I can tell you
.
Okay, let’s do a couple of questions. Right? Come on.


…You know, we have now and the numbers they just came out we have 50 million p
eople in poverty in this country.
Now, you look like you’re doing pretty well in all fairness. But still, we hav
e 50 million. We have 46 million people and they’re getting food stamps. 46 mi
llion. Think of it. You know, we talk about how well we’re doing.
So we have 50 million – almost 50 million each between poverty, food stamps, a
nd it’s got to end.
One of the problems – we don’t have enough jobs in this country. It’s very
 simple. You know, it’s so simple when you think about it.
Our jobs have been taken away.
And I’ll tell you what else, middle income folks – their salaries haven’t 
gone up in 12 years. People are making less wages now than they were 12 years ag
o. And other things have gone up. So they’re really doing much worse than they
 were doing 12 years ago.
But that’s an amazing stat.
But people – one of the reasons they say I’m doing so well because I let peo
ple know we’re going to bring jobs back. We’re going to bring industry and p
lants. We’re going to bring it all back and nobody else can say that. We’re 
going to bring it back because a lot of the folks in this room are doing worse t
han they were 12 years ago and they’re working.
Then the other thing, you have a lot of part-time jobs. I have some people that 
I know very well and they’ve had a job for 20 years at the same place. All of 
a sudden they’re working part-time because of Obamacare because from an accoun
ting standpoint, it just works better. They love the owners, the stores and thin
gs. They love the owners; they think the owners are great. But the owners are fo
rced to make part-time jobs; they have part-time jobs. They work all their life.
 They have a wonderful company that they’re working for, and now all of a sudd
en they’re cut into part-time jobs because of Obamacare because of the rulings
 of Obamacare. And you all know what I’m talking about.
So they end up being part-time workers and they don’t want to be part-time wor
kers. They don’t even like the psychology of being called a part-time worker. 
And we’re not going to have that stuff anymore. We’re not going to have it a
ny more.
We’re going to have real jobs and the numbers are going to go up. Believe me. 
The numbers are right now worse than 12 years ago and that’s a shame


…Tell you what, as President, I can guarantee it. As Trump, I can say I’ll p
robably be able to pull it off anyway because they know it won’t stop. It’ll
 be easier to take Todd and just say, "Look, we’re going to work with you, Tod
d. Okay?" So will you get me that number and everything and we’ll make sure th
at everything get – and somebody else – who else over here? You have problem
s with the VA also, huh? Terrible?
I hear only – I just hear terrible. And we’re going to solve that problem. Y
ou know, it can be solved.
The waits now for the VA are longer than they’ve ever been…The waits now are
 worse than they’ve ever been. Thousands of people dying waiting for a doctor.
 Okay, dying.
And you find the same thing, you say. You have to use your own because they won
t do anything.
So we’re going to take care of our vets and we’re going to take care of the 
VA and it’s going to be one of the things we’re going to be releasing pretty
 soon.
But one of the things we’re going to do with the VA, we have a lot of hospital
s that aren’t doing any business. We have a lot of private doctors that could 
do more business.
We’re losing a lot of our doctors because of Obamacare. They’re retiring. Th
ey’re leaving.
One of them – a friend of mine – said "I have more nurses working for me now
 more than before but I have more accountants" and the end result is a disaster;
 he’s getting out of the business. He’s got nurses but he’s got more accou
ntants than he has nurses because the paperwork is so crazy.
So one of the things we’re going to do is if Todd or if you or if somebody has
 problems because of the wait – because the waits are unbelievable – 5, 6, 7
 days sometimes. They’re going to a private doctor. They’re going to go to a
 private hospital. Or a public hospital that’s in the area. And we’re going 
to pay for that and it’s going to cost less money – it’s going to cost les
s money than the system we have now – and you’re going to end up getting muc
h better care. It’s going to cost less and you’re going to get better care



So the Keystone Pipeline, first of all, I’d approve it because it’s thousand
s of jobs. Okay? I would approve it so fast, so fast.
And Hillary should have approved it.
You know, Hillary wanted to approve it but she’s been dragged so far left, tha
t’s she’s – forget it. It’s a disaster.
So I would approve it.
But with that being said, I may want to make a better deal because you know what
? We’re bringing oil from Canada. Right? I may say, I want 10%. We’re going 
to approve it but I want 10%, 15%.
Because the truth is that the Keystone Pipeline was better a while ago than it i
s now because we have so much because of new technology, we have so much energy 
underneath our own feet with the fracking and all of the other things that have 
emerged over the last five years, we have so much energy. And it’s great stuff
.
We have really great quality, higher than Canada. You know, they have the tar sa
nds, which is a problem for them. Very expensive to get it out.
We have great stuff. So I would approve it because I love the jobs of building i
t. I love the jobs of building it.
But I may just say, maybe we should get 10%, 15%, maybe 20% as that oil flows th
rough our land. You know, maybe we should do that.
So I’m going to look into that. But when I approve it – I’ll tell you what
, when I approve it, it’ll be a great deal for the United States. It won’t b
e like – because right now, what we’re doing is we’re approving it, we’r
e not really getting anything. They’re putting it underground, and that’s ac
tually good environmentally. Better than having trucks going down the road and e
verything else. That’s good environmentally. But we’re not getting – we’
re not getting – anything much for it.
When I get finished with the Keystone, they’ll be happy and we’ll be happy. 
Okay?


Well, I’ll tell you in all fairness, Ben Carson said yesterday or the other da
y that he wants to abolish Medicare. Okay? And you know what a disaster that is.
 Now, I’m sure at some point, he’ll take it back. But he said he wants to ab
olish Medicare and one thing, people do like their Medicare; they do like it.
And you are bringing up a point that I’ve heard before. We’re going to look 
at a lot of different things.
But we’re going to save Social Security, we’re going to save Medicare and th
at’s the way it is. Okay? We’re not abolishing like other people.
 
Okay, it’s a lot of people but you know what? It’s costing us $200 billion a
 year immigration in this country right now.
And Dwight Eisenhower is going to say he moved 1.5 million in the 1950s, early 1
950s, moved them out.
We have tremendous illegal immigration problems. Dwight Eisenhower, nice guy, he
 moved 1.5 million people out of the United States. And you know what happened? 
He moved them right across the border and they came back and they moved them aga
in and they came back. They moved them a third time, they came right back.
And then you know they were tougher in those days. They moved them all the way s
outh – all the way south – and they didn’t come back.
Now, we have to do it. We have no choice. We either have a country or we don’t
.
And I want them to come back. But I want them to come back with papers. I want t
hem to come back legally. I want them to come back. The good ones. The good ones
. But only the good ones.
We got some bad ones. Remember the heat I took with illegal immigration? Remembe
r that heat? For two weeks. Rush Limbaugh said "He has received more incoming th
an any human being I’ve ever seen." And then he double-downed…
You know what? I took a lot of heat and then you had Kate in San Francisco, kill
ed, shot in the back and so many others. And people started looking.
And let me tell you, we have some wonderful people over here and they’re here 
illegally but they’re wonderful people. Okay? And we’ll try to get them back
 real soon and we’ll do it through a legal process.
But we also have some really bad gang members. You know, some of the gangs in LA
. They’re made up of illegal immigrants.
And we have unbelievable police forces that don’t get the respect that they sh
ould get. They don’t get it. I mean, what they go through, it’s unbelievable
. They’re afraid to talk to anybody. They don’t want to lose their jobs. The
y don’t want to lose their pensions. They can’t talk.
Now, let me just tell you something. You can always have bad apples. In this roo
m, we have a couple of bad apples. Okay? I don’t know who they are or where th
ey are but you do. Probably mostly back there in the press.
But the police do an unbelievable job. And they know the gangs. You go to LA the
 LA cops. You got Chicago, the Chicago cops. These people are amazing people if 
they would be allowed to do their jobs. But they’re not allowed to do their jo
bs.
And we’re going to get the bad ones out of here so fast and they’re not comi
ng back and I don’t want to put them in our jails because I don’t want to su
bsidize these various countries where they come from for the next 45 years. I do
n’t want them in our jails. We have hundreds of thousands right now in our jai
ls. I don’t want them in our jails.
I heard a couple of these candidates saying, "Well, they’re – " They’re su
ch babies.
But you know what? They’re talking about putting them in jail. Well, I don’t
 want them. Our jails are over-brimming. I want to use our jails for people that
 are supposed to be there. Okay? And I don’t want to put these really bad dude
s – I mean, they are bad – I don’t want to have to pay for them for the ne
xt 45 years. Okay?
And we’re going to deal very humanely with the good people and they are mostly
 good people. But we’ve got some real bad ones and they’re out of here. Your
 head will spin probably.
Somebody said the other day, "What’s the first thing you’re going to do?" We
ll, we’re going to work immediately on repealing Obamacare.
You know, the one good thing about executive orders? The one good thing? You kno
w, Obama signed an executive order where everybody just come in. Come in.
We have great border patrol people. I got to know them a couple of months ago wh
en I went down to Texas to the border. They’re great people. They’re not all
owed to do their job. They stand there and watch people walk right in front of t
hem smiling at them. They want to do their job; they’re not allowed to.
So the executive order that President Obama signed, the one good thing about an 
executive order, in the first minute in office, I will counter-sign and revoke t
hose executive orders. They’ll be revoked. The only good thing.
It’s actually the only good thing about an executive order is that a new presi
dent can just do a signature and that’s the end of that.
So we’re going to clean up our border. We’re going to make it fantastic. We
re going to be proud to be a country again and a lot of good things are going 
to happen.


We will support Israel 1,000%.
Israel feels so left alone and I know BiBi and a lot of my friends are from Isra
el and they feel so left out.
And so many people say, you know, I have so many Jewish friends where they say w
hy did I support Obama? I think he’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to
 Israel. And we will support Israel beyond anything they ever have before. Okay?
That’s an easy one. That’s the easiest question of the night!


 
…The wall is a big factor. 60%, 70%. The drugs are a great question.
We are going to stop drugs.
Look, I told you before – Mexico – $45 to $50 billion. That’s not includin
g the drugs. The drugs that are coming across the border are beyond belief.
Did you see the picture last week where they had a little wall this big and they
 built a ramp for trucks to go over it with trucks? Did you see the picture? The
y think we’re playing games.
And Mexico is not helping us. Mexico is not helping.
Do you know if you want to become a citizen of Mexico – I love the Mexican peo
ple. I have many Mexican people and Hispanics working for me. In Nevada, I’m n
umber one. I’m rated number one in the polls with the Hispanics. Everyone’s 
shocked.
Because the Hispanics that are here legally, those people they want me, they kno
w I’m going to bring jobs and everything else. They don’t want people pourin
g in.
But I will tell you Mexico has got to help us.
You know, if you want to become a citizen of Mexico…do you know it’s one of 
the hardest countries in the world to become a citizen of? And yet, people pour 
right through into us, into us. They call us the dumb Americans. That’s what t
hey call us because of our leaders. They call us the dumb Americans.
If you want to become a citizen of Mexico, you could take the best person in thi
s room, the most qualified, you’re not going to do it. They don’t do that.
And if you’re there illegally and if you overstay your bound? You’re not goi
ng to be there illegally. But if you have a pass for two weeks and you overstay 
your bound, they have cops waiting for you. They have police that say, "You know
 you have one day left." I hear it’s unbelievable. I’m impressed actually. B
ecause to a certain extent, that’s the way it’s supposed to be.
But if you want to become a citizen of Mexico, it’s impossible. They don’t h
ave anchor babies in Mexico. You’re born a baby in Mexico, it’s like bye-bye
.
Here, you’re born over here, "Oh, congratulations we’re taking care of the b
aby for 85 years." Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. No, it’s n
ot going to happen.
By the way, this is important, I sort of lucked into this one. The 14th Amendmen
t. It says right there – you know, everybody says you have to go through a who
le process, it’ll take many years, you have to go through every state. You hav
e to do another amendment. It’s wrong. 14th Amendment covers it.
And some of the best legal minds in the world say "Trump is right." I said, "Wha
t? I am? I didn’t know." I lucked into it. Every once in a while you luck.
The fact is somebody comes in illegally and they have a baby, we’re not respon
sible. Now, we may have a court case but we’re going to win it. And a simple a
ct of Congress gets rid of it. And a lot of people didn’t know that. Okay?
And the reason I said it can be possible because nobody could be foolish enough 
to allow a thing like that. How could it be possible? And we’re one of the onl
y countries where that takes place.
And honestly, I use Mexico as an example because they’re so tough. If that hap
pens in Mexico, they don’t even know what you’re talking about. What are you
 talking about? But with us? No good. Not going to happen anymore.


 
Well, you know, the amazing thing is that the politicians in this country live b
y a whole different standard when it comes to health care, when it comes to ever
ything they have including what you just said about Social Security.
Our politicians live by a different standard and I think that shouldn’t happen
. And some of them tried to do it.
You know the story in Obamacare, they don’t have to take it. They live by a di
fferent standard. And that’s not going to happen. Everybody’s going to live 
by the same standard. They’re going to have the same standard as the poorest p
erson in this room. That’s the way it’s going to be.
 
It’s a good question. But do you know if I answer that question, we’d have a
 big, big story. You know that, right?
You know, I’ll tell you, it is a question that’s asked a lot.
I know a lot of good people. A couple of people on the stage that I really respe
ct, I’ve gotten to respect.
But the truth is too early. I like to get things done first. We’ve got to clos
e the deal. I don’t want to think about it.
There are a lot of good people. There are a lot of good people. We’ve got to c
lose the deal. We’ve got to get it done. And to get it done, I want Iowa.
So good luck everybody. Thank you very much. I love you. I love you. Thank you. 
And we’ll be back. Thank you.


So, we’re going to be discussing something so important for our country, for o
ur economy, and for getting us all working again and working well again.
It’s a tax reform that I think will make America strong and great again.
Too few Americans are working. Too many jobs are being shipped overseas. And too
 many middle income families cannot make ends meet.
This plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business.
It will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other Americans.
 There will be a major tax reduction.
It will simplify the tax code. It will grow the American economy at a level it h
asn’t seen for decades.
And all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit.
But I will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make mu
ch better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and we’ve got to make our e
conomy strong.
Changes for individuals will be at levels that you haven’t seen in a long time
.
We’re going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. Simplification. 
25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%.
If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 per year or married and jointly ea
rn less than $50,000 – so, very important. If you’re single and earn less th
an $25,000 or married and jointly earn less than $50,000, you’ll not pay any i
ncome tax – nothing.
This eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. Very unfair pena
lty.
It eliminates the AMT, which is the alternative minimum tax.
It ends the death tax. It’s a double taxation. A lot of families go through he
ll over the death tax.
It reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to speci
al interests or to the very rich – in other words, it’s going to cost me a f
ortune, which is actually true – while preserving charitable giving and mortag
age interest deductions. Very importantly.
It ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. Those are the hedge fund 
folks that I’ve been talking about for quite a while. They make a lot of money
. Carried interest.
So it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative par
tnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking their o
wn capital.
Changes for business – now, so important, because it’s all about business. I
t’s all about jobs.
We have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want
 to work; they can’t work.
So for business, no business of any size from a Fortune 500 company to a mom and
 pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15% of their
 business income in taxes. Big reduction.
A one-time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly 
discount which coming back at a significantly discount – 10%. So it comes back
 discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income
 earned abroad.
Now, it’s called corporate inversion. It’s a huge subject.
I’ve been watching politicians now for years – all talk, no action politicia
ns. I’ve been watching them for years talking about bringing this money back.


The number is probably $2.5 trillion.
Everybody agrees it should come back – Republicans, Democrats, everybody.
They can’t make a deal. They don’t know how to go about making a deal.
The reason companies aren’t bringing it back is the tax is onerous. It doesn
t make sense to bring it back.
And in fact, many companies are leaving the United States. They’re leaving our
 shores to go and collect their money.
They’re going actually moving out of the United States for two reasons – the
 taxes are too high and because they have tremendous amounts of money that they 
can’t bring back into this country when everybody wants them to bring it back 
in.
It’s called leadership.
We will have that money brought back in.
As an example, I have millions of dollars overseas. I can’t bring it back into
 this country. We filed papers. We’ve been doing this for a year and a half. W
e can’t get it back in.
So the money stays in other countries and that’s what happens. Not good for us
.
The level of leadership that we need to get things like this done is so importan
t. But this is something – and I’ve been watching it for a long time – eve
rybody agrees to.
We also reduce or eliminate some business loopholes – many of them actually 
 and deductions made unnecessary or redundant by the new lower tax rate on busi
ness income.
The tax rate now is so low that a lot of these deductions which are complicated,
 which don’t make sense, and which are unfair are gone.
And we phase in a reasonable cap on the deductability of the business interest e
xpense.
So we are going to give you – we have a very complex set of papers that actual
ly if you know business is not so complex. And we’re going to hand them out ri
ght now to the press.
And I think you’ll see we have an amazing code. It will be simple. It will be 
easy. It will be fair.
It’s graduated. As you get up in income, you pay a little more.
Some of the very unfair deductions that certain people have been given who make 
a lot of money will not be available any longer.
But I actually believe they’ll do better because I think the economy will grow
. It will grow rapidly. And we’ll have something very special.
Now, with all of that being said and before we take some questions, we have to c
ut the costs of what’s going on in this country.
If you look at what we’re doing and the money we’re spending. I read where a
 washer – you know what a washer is? Nuts, bolts, and washer – to send from 
one state to another, it was a 19 set washer and it cost $900,000 and some odd d
ollars to send it from here to there.
And there are many examples. Hammers that cost $800 that you can buy in the stor
e for a tiny amount of money.
We will run this country properly. There is so much money to be saved.
We’re reducing taxes but at the same time if I win, if I become President, we 
will be able to cut so much money and have a better country.
We won’t be losing anything other than we’ll be balancing budgets and gettin
g them where they should be.
So, this is a plan that’s simple, that’s a major reduction. I think people a
re going to be very happy. We’ve already had some very good reviews.
I did the plan with some of the leading scholars and economists and tax experts 
that there are in this country. They love it; they say "Why hasn’t this been d
one before?"
And this is my wheelhouse. That’s what I do well.
The economy is what I do well. Whenever they do polls, I always come out way abo
ve everybody else on the economy and on leadership, by the way, but I won’t sa
y that.
So, if anybody has – [applause] – thank you. That’s amazing. That’s some
 of the press was actually clapping. I’ve never saw – I don’t think I’ve
 ever seen that before.
All right. Why don’t we take some questions from the press?


 




No, I’m not going to do that yet but we have their approval. But we have some 
of the top people in the country worked on this.
 




Well, we’re looking at a 3% but we think it can be 5%, it could even be 6%. We
’re going to have growth that will be tremendous.
And by the way, if we have more than 3%, these numbers are really spectacular.
And one of the things that they don’t take into account in any big league fash
ion is the cutting. There is so much waste in government and I believe when I ge
t in there I’ll be able to cut without losing anything to cut tremendous amoun
ts off of the – and we’re not even showing anything for that.
So, they’re very conservative numbers.
 




My taxes will – first of all, I’ll have a much simpler tax statement. It wil
l be much simpler.
When I do my return, it will be much – my return go up to the ceiling and beyo
nd, which is ridiculous. And you spend millions of dollars at a high level on la
wyers, accountants, and everything else.
We want to simplify them to a tremendous level.
The bracket of 25% – the big difference is many of the loopholes and many of t
he deductions which are all – they’ve been there for years – are antiquate
d in many cases.
Or are put there because a lot of the people that get these deductions are contr
ibuted to Hillary, they’re contributing to Bush. They’re contributing to eve
ry candidate but Trump. Because I’m not taking any money. I’m self-funding. 
And these people want these deductions.
There will be people – we’re reducing taxes. But believe me, there will be p
eople in the very upper eschelons that won’t be thrilled with this.
We’re taking away deductions and that’s one of the reasons we’re able to l
ower it.
 




This is actually a tax reduction. A big tax reduction, including for the upper i
ncome.
I believe that the economy will do so well that even though they won’t be gett
ing certain deductions which aren’t fair for them to be getting that they’ll
 end up doing better.
 




I just think this is a common sense approach. You know, we could say supply side
. You could say there’s 15 different names given out for different kinds of de
ductions or increases. I don’t think it’s supply side or anything else.
I think this is a common sense, well thought out tax proposal that’s going to 
trigger the economy, going to make everybody go back and really want to work.
It’s going to create tremendous numbers of jobs.
One of the other things that I’m coupling this with is if I become President, 
I’m going to renegotiate our trade deals. Because our trade deals are not sust
ainable by this country. Not sustainable.
We cannot continue to let our jobs go to all of the different countries. There
s not a country that we negotiate with that doesn’t make a better deal. Every
body.
We lose money with everything.
I’m also going to renegotiate some of our military costs. Because we protect S
outh Korea, we protect Germany, we protect some of the wealthiest countries in t
he world – Saudi Arabia – we protect everybody. We protect everybody.
And we don’t get reimbursement. We lose on everything. We lose on everything.
So, we’re going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals, military deals, many
 other deals that’s going to get the costs down for running our country very s
ignificantly. I’m not showing a big number in that. But I believe that if I be
come President, those numbers are going to be massive.
As an example, Saudi Arabia. They make $1 billion a day. We protect them.
So we need help.
We’re losing a tremendous amount of money on a yearly basis and we owe $19 tri
llion.
I used to say $18 trillion for the last 6, 7 months; now it’s $19 trillion and
 it’s only going up.
 




Well, no, look. Senator [Marco] Rubio is a lightweight. We understand that. He w
ouldn’t be able to do this. He wouldn’t know a trade deal from any other dea
l and what certain people are trying to do is they’re trying to take – we ju
st went up in the last poll. We went up two points in the last poll, and we cont
inue to go up.
In the NBC poll, I think we went from 26% to 29%. We’re going up very strongly
 in the polls. They don’t know what to do about it.
I’ve built a great company. You’ll see that in 60 Minutes last night. I buil
t a great company. It’s a phenomenal company with very little debt, tremendous
 cash flow.
I’m funding my own campaign.
Guys like Rubio, I mean, he desperately needs money. Ask the car dealer in Flori
da. Ask the people that support him.
And a guy like Rubio and others – I don’t want to single him out; you’re s
ingling him out – but they’re largely controlled by their donors, the specia
l interests, and frankly more than anybody else, the lobbyists.
I’ve turned down millions of millions of dollars from lobbyists and special in
terests because it’s not the right thing. It’s just not right. And that seem
s to be resonating very strongly.


 




I negotiate. It’s true. I get bills from people; I’ll negotiate. Oh, is that
 a bad thing? The country should do that.
 




Yeah, I would. I’d bring that same attitude to the White House. It’s true.
She says I have a habit when you get a bill, you’d call up and you negotiate. 
To me, that’s a compliment.
No, I want to take that thinking to the White House. I would bet you we could sa
ve 20% of our budget. I could even save more. But we could save a tremendous amo
unt.
That has to be the attitude our country has. You can’t spend millions and mill
ions of dollars on doing something that you can do for $2,000.
You know, when you look at costs, we just spent $1 million building a soccer fie
ld. Okay? A soccer field for our prisoners that happen to be in Guantanamo. Okay
? I don’t like that. What do you need $1 million for? Level out the surface, l
et them play – if they had to play at all. Okay? What do you need to spend $1 
million.
We just spent – it’s a story today. $1 million on a soccer field. How do you
 spend $1 million doing a soccer field? You have a level piece of land. Throw th
em a ball if they have to play soccer – if they have to play at all. Why are t
hey playing soccer is my question.
 




No, it’s too long. You don’t have time. You don’t have time.
 




No, not at all. We’re lowering taxes, which Republicans love.
And I think one of the reasons I am doing so well in the polls and one of the re
asons I’m doing so well when it comes to the economy in all polls is that this
 is the thinking.
No, we’re lowering taxes very substantially. We’re simplifying. And we’re 
getting rid of deductions that are actually obselete that certain people want to
 keep for certain reasons.
So, no, that’s not true.
 




Well, Putin was interviewed and I was interviewed last night. I thought his inte
rview – I though Charlie Rose did an excellent job. But I thought his was a so
fter interview.
Scott Pelley interviewed me. I thought Scott was terrific. I mean, it was a toug
h interview but I thought he was very fair and I thought the piece was very good
.
 




Why is he harder on me than Putin? I would say because Putin is a nicer person t
han I am.
 




The worst in 36 years. Well, it’s a good question and you can connect the dots
. But I guess it has been probably since ’04. You know, you’re talking about
 10, 11, 12 years that people have wanted to bring the money back into the count
ry.
And again it’s called corporate inversion and in a lot of time corporations ar
e moving out and they’re going to other countries, taking jobs.
And now, we have a really big problem because we have serious companies – very
 large, very prestigious companies as you know – obviously you know something 
about business. But we have major companies looking to move out of the United St
ates.
You know, it used to be they’d move from New York to Florida. They’d move fr
om New Jersey to Texas. Or whatever.
Now, they’re talking about moving from the United States to Ireland and to Eng
land and to other places, to Spain where they get treated differently and frankl
y better.
And they’re doing that for a number of reasons but one of the reasons – one 
of the big reasons – as you know is taxes. One of the other reasons is to get 
all of this cash that they’ve built up and they can’t get back into our coun
try.
And when this money comes back into our country that everybody wants, it’s goi
ng to be put to work in our country, largely. It can go other places. But largel
y.
And I think it will be an amazing boon.
Now, here’s the other thing. They think it’s $2.5 trillion. I think it’s m
uch more than that.
I actually think it’s going to be more money than that. And boy if it is, we h
ave hit pay dirt.


 




Well, you know when you end the repatriation, when you get the money coming back
 in beyond, tremendous things happen.
 




Well, I’ll be announcing that in the not too distant future.
But I will tell you. I’ve been honest. I’m the only one that’s honest abou
t this thing.
I watched Romney. I watched all – "Oh, I pay so much tax. I pay so much tax." 
I watched all politicians and they say "I pay – "
I fight like hell to pay as little as possible. Can I say that? I’m not a poli
tician.
I fight like hell always because it’s an expense.
And you know, I feel – I fight. I have the best lawyers and the best accountan
ts and I fight. And I pay. But it’s an expense.
And frankly, I would feel differently if this country was spending the money wis
ely instead of throwing it out the drain.
Our country spends our money so stupidly and I will tell you that I could speak 
for myself I pay a lot of tax but I fight like hell to make it as low as possibl
e. But I would feel a lot differently if our leadership was such that I respecte
d the decisions.
All you have to do is look at a list of the things that our government is spendi
ng money on right now and you don’t feel so good about our country.
 




I’ll tell you what in terms of income inequality, we’re going to create a lo
t of jobs.
You know, right now, we have a false – 5.4%, 5.3%, 5.6% – every month it’s
 different.
It’s such a phony number. Because when people look and look and look and then 
they give up looking for a job, they’re taken off the roll. So the number isn
t reflective.
I’ve seen numbers of 24%. I actually saw a number of 42% unemployment. 42%.
And it could be because when you’re looking for a job and you go around and yo
u look and you look and you find it, you want to work and you want to take care 
of your family and then you can’t get the job – you know what I’m talking 
about because you’re shaking your head – and you can’t get the job, essent
ially for statistically purposes you are considered employed.
So then I read every time it comes out I hear 5.3% unemployment. That is the big
gest joke there is in this country.
That number is so false.
And you know, people ask "How come Trump is doing so well? And Carson and others
? How come they’re doing -?" You know why they’re doing well? Because people
 are tired of political speak. They’re tired of that.
And the worst example of it – one of the worst example of it – is the phony 
unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate is probably 20%. But I will tell you you have some great e
conomists that will tell you it’s 30%, 32%. And the highest I’ve heard so fa
r is 42%.
There’s anger out there at the job picture.
Now, one of the things – with that being said, China, Japan, Mexico, Brazil, t
hese countries are all taking our jobs like we’re a bunch of babies.
That will stop. People will treat us fairly if I become President.
We’re losing our jobs. We’re losing our base. We’re losing our manufacturi
ng.
All of that will stop.
 




Well, this is number one a simplification. Number two, what I’m really doing i
s the big picture because corporations now are going to start having an incentiv
e to create jobs. They’re going to have an incentive also to stay in this coun
try.
 




…Well, if they provide bigger dividends, people are going to have more money t
o spend. So that’s not so bad either.
If a corporation gives out a bigger dividend, that’s great. Mr. Jones gets a b
igger dividend, he’s going to have more money to spend in the economy. So that
’s good.
 




I know nothing about that.
 




No, I’m not a populist. No, I’m not. I’m a man of great common sense. I’
m a man that’s built a tremendous company with the best locations in real esta
te, the best everything. You’re here at one of them. I have many of these.
I’ve done a great job. I’ve employed tens of thousands of people. I employ n
ow thousands and thousands of people. I’ve done a good job.
But I wouldn’t say populist at all. I would say I’m a man of common sense.
I’m cutting taxes. I’m going to create a lot of jobs. I’m going to get rid
 of a tremendous amount of waste.
And I’ll tell you what. The waste that I get rid of – the waste that I get r
id of – is going to have a huge impact and I’m not even putting that in my n
umbers so I think it’s going to be terrific.
 




Yes, the motor industry. That’s a beautiful way of describing it – the motor
 industry.
Where are you from? England? I love them. Oh, what a beautiful accent.
No, I want to get the industry – we call it the automobile industry.
But I want to get the automobile industry to build factories here.
As you know, Ford is building $2.5 billion factory in Mexico.
Mexico also took a big plant out of Tennessee and Tennessee thought they were go
ing to get it and they didn’t.
I want the motor companies, as you would say, or the automobile companies to bui
ld their plants in the United States.
I don’t want Nabisco leaving for Mexico or any place else.
I want these companies not to leave Chicago, not to leave Michigan, not to leave
 New Hampshire and Iowa and South Carolina and all of these places where they’
re leaving and they’re going to other countries.
I want them to stay here and they will stay here and they’ll be so happy.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. It’s been a great honor. Thank you.


Autism has become an epidemic.
25 years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics. Not even close.
It has gotten totally out of control.
I am totally in favor of vaccines but I want smaller doses over a longer period 
of time.
Because you take a baby in – and I’ve seen it and I’ve seen it and I had m
y children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year pe
riod of time, same exact amount. But you take this little beautiful baby and you
 pump – I mean, it looks just like it’s meant for a horse not for a child.
And we’ve had so many instances – people that work for me just the other day
 – two years old, two and a half years old, a child – a beautiful child – 
went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever, 
got very, very sick, now is autistic.
I only say – I’m in favor of vaccines. Do them over a longer period of time.
 Same amount but just in little sections.
And I think you’re going to have – I think you’re going to see a big impac
t on autism.


…Boy, oh, boy. I didn’t expect that. You know, Joe [Arends] and the group [V
eterans for a Strong America] called and they said "Would you come over and spea
k?"
I’m here for a certain reason. You know, it’s called tomorrow night. So I go
t here and they asked a couple of days ago if it would possible to come over and
 say a few words. An endorsement from your group with so many veterans – hundr
eds of thousands of veterans – I really appreciate that, Joe. I did not expect
 that.
I didn’t expect it. I didn’t ask for it.
I will say this: I am with the veterans 100%. They’re our greatest people. The
y’re being treated terribly.
Not only the number of deaths, which are obviously – that’s what’s going o
n is incredible.
But as of two weeks ago on Wednesday, the vets had the longest wait in the histo
ry of the Veterans Administration. You go in to see a doctor, you wait for days,
 for days.
And it’s not going to happen. Not going to happen. If I win, believe me, it’
s not going to happen.
And one of the things I thought I’d do and I’d stress so strongly – the ve
terans hospitals – obviously they have problems. They’re not properly run.
And when you have to wait long hours and long days and then in some cases have t
he doctor say "I’m sorry. I’m going on vacation", believe me, it doesn’t g
et much worse than that.
So we’re going to create a whole new system. We’re going to take this system
 apart.
And if they’re not doing the job, the veterans are going to go to private doct
ors, private hospitals, public hospitals, and we’re going to reimburse those d
octors and those hospitals.
And you’re going to get the greatest service of any veterans in any country be
cause you deserve it. And that’s going to be broken down into something that
s going to be very special.
Right now – and you know it – we have illegal immigrants that are treated be
tter by far than our veterans. It’s not going to happen anymore. It’s not go
ing to happen.
So, Joe, I just really appreciate it. So unexpected.
To be here is an honor. They don’t build ships like this anymore, folks. You k
now? We don’t do them this way anymore.
I actually said what about recommissioning – look at this thing. The largest g
uns in the world. The most powerful guns. I learned about the Iowa.
By the way, Iowa is a great place for a lot of reasons. You know? We have been t
reated so well in the state of Iowa. It’s been incredible. Number one on the p
olls and we love those people. They’re great.
So this is a great ship and that’s a great state.


I just want to say that we’re going to come out with some plans in a very shor
t time.
We’re going to be building up our military. We’re going to make our military
 so big and so strong and so great.
And it will be so powerful that I don’t think we’re going to ever have to us
e it. Nobody’s going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
And we’re going to have a President who’s respected by Putin, who’s respec
ted by Iran.
You know, let’s talk about for two seconds, let’s talk about the Iran deal.
Now, Obama and his people call him the Supreme Leader of Iran. Obama talks about
 the Supreme Leader. Well, I’m not calling him a Supreme Leader.
But he said the other day that after this rip-off deal is completed, he will nev
er touch, do business with the United States again. "We’re finished with the U
nited States."
They’re taking $150 billion. They’re getting a deal that’s going to go rig
ht into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think.
They’re going to self-police – think about that one – they are going to go
 and self-police.
They’ve got the 24-day – they have 24-day provisions. And by the way, what p
eople don’t understand – the 24-day provision doesn’t start – you know t
his, right? It doesn’t start for a long time before you even get to it. The cl
ock is ticking. It can take forever. We may never get it there.
It is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts I’ve ever seen
 of any kind.
So, we are going to do things and this country right.
We’re not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and ther
e’s still there and we don’t even ask for them.
One of them is there because he’s a Christian. We have a writer. We have – t
he whole thing is absolutely insane.
You know, they asked the President, and they asked Secretary of State Kerry who 
maybe – you know, I’ve been saying Hillary Clinton is the worst Secretary of
 State in the history of this country. Right? All right. I’ve been saying it. 
But it’s possible – the world blew up around her. It blew up. Just blew up. 
The whole world is like a different place.
It’s possible that because of this deal made by Secretary Kerry who has absolu
tely no clue how to negotiate, it may that he’s going to supersede. And I unde
rstand that he may want to run for President. He has no chance like she has no c
hance.
So we’re going to see what happens.
We have many problems in our country. One of them is immigration.
Now, I took a tremendous hit when I brought up illegal immigration when I announ
ced I was running for President.
And for two weeks, I said – you know, Rush Limbaugh – he’s a great guy –
 he said "He has suffered more incoming" – meaning the press – "than anybody
 I’ve seen."
So what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about
 and I am so happy that I’m the one that brought it to the fore because believ
e me, it’s a big problem. It is a big problem.
So you remember for about two weeks, I said, "Boy this is tougher than I thought
 running for President." And then you found out there’s tremendous crime. Ther
e’s tremendous drugs pouring across the border. Tremendous. Beyond. Going to C
hicago, going to New York, going to LA, going all over our country.


So the drugs pour in and the money pours out. Not a good deal. We get the drugs,
 they get the money. The drug cartels are going wild. They cannot believe how st
upid our government is.
They are making a fortune. The drugs come in. The money goes out daily. And I sa
w it because I was on the border. I was there. And we saw it. And everybody sees
 it everyday.
And we have the kind of people that can do something about it but we have no lea
dership. None. None whatsoever.
So, we’re going to build a wall and Mexico’s going to pay for the wall, beli
eve me. You know, a lot of politicians have said "Oh, they’re not going to pay
". They don’t know anything about – they never read the Art of the Deal, fir
st of all.
So here’s the story. So here’s the story. I said the other day to one of my 
people "What is the United State’s trade deficit with Mexico, Japan, and China
?"
So let’s start with China. Almost $400 billion a year.
Now, if you have a company where you’re losing $400 billion, you’ve got to d
o something very fast.
We don’t. We’ve been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year frankly f
or decades.
Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore.
With Japan where their massive ships floating right here and they drop off the c
ars, right? They drop off thousands and thousands and thousands of cars – mill
ions of cars – and we sell them beef. We sell them beef.
And they don’t want it because their farmers don’t want our beef. They prote
st and they send it back. All right?
It’s not going to happen that way anymore.
Now, with Mexico – and I love Mexico. I have many, many people – many, many 
people from Mexico that work with me and they work for me and they buy my apartm
ents.
Same with China. I have so many people. They pay me millions and millions. What 
am I supposed to hate China because they gave me millions of dollars to buy an a
partment? I don’t think so.
I had the largest bank in the world as a tenant. It’s from China. Bigger than 
any bank in this country by many times. They’re from China.
The problem that we have is that the leaders of Mexico, Japan, and China and eve
ry other country that we do business with, they’re smarter, more cunning, shar
per than our leaders.
I love free trade. The concept is great. But you need smart people.


I have the smartest people in this country lined up. I know the smartest.
I have Carl Icahn. I have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. 
They’re wealthy because they make good deals like me. I make good deals.
You know, it’s a talent. It’s a talent. You can’t be a politician.
Look, I’m fighting some very nice people. Very nice. Even though I’m leading
 in the polls. But they’re very nice people.
But they’re never going to do anything with these countries. They’re never g
oing to be able to do it. It’s an instinct. It’s something that’s special.
 They don’t have it. Believe me, they don’t have it.
It’s just going to be more of the same.
So, we are going to make our country so great.
We are going to make it strong. We are going to make it powerful.
We’re going to rebuild the military. We’re going to make it so strong.
We are going to take care of our veterans.
And in the end, in the end, I want you people to look around and look at each ot
her because this is going to be a special day.
The other week – two weeks ago in Mobile, Alabama, 31,000 people showed up in 
a rainy rough day. 31,000 people came to see us speak and we’re talking about 
making America great again.
Last night in Dallas at the American Airlines Center, 20,000 people – the bask
etball arena of the Mavericks. 20,000 people showed up and I want to tell you, i
t was a love fest. Everybody – think of it, 20,000 people – there wasn’t o
ne heckler in the whole room. I kept saying, "There’s got to be one."
There was a word – two words that used to be used a lot called "silent majorit
y". They stopped using them.
The silent majority, believe me, is back and I think we can use it somewhat diff
erent.
I don’t think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because they’re n
ot silent. People are not silent.
They’re disgusted with our incompetent politicians.
They’re disgusted with the people that are giving our country away.
They’re disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people 
and can do the job.
They’re disgusted when they’re allowed people to just walk right in front of
 them and they’re standing there helpless and people just pour into the countr
y.
They’re disgusted when a woman who’s nine months pregnant, walks across the 
border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the next 85 years
.
They’re disgusted by what’s happening to our country.
And you’re going to look around and you’re going to remember who the people 
are that are here because we’re doing something special. This is a movement. W
e’re going to make our country great again.
Believe me, we will make our country great again.
I love you all. Thank you very much.


Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you all for being here. This is some turno
ut. My great honor.
The Chairman just left as you probably know and he’s been extremely fair. The 
RNC has been absolutely terrific over the last two month period.
And as you know, that’s what I’ve wanted. I wanted fairness.
I don’t have to be treated any differently than anybody else. I just wanted fa
irness from the Republican Party.
We’re leading in every single poll. A new poll came out today where we’re ov
er 30%. We’ve actually hit numbers as high as 35% and 40%.
And frankly, I’ve felt that the absolute best way to win and to beat the Democ
rats and very easily I think beat the Democrats no matter who it may be whether 
it’s Hillary or anybody else and I think maybe Hillary is going to have a very
 hard time frankly with what’s happening getting to the starting gate, the bes
t way for the Republicans to win is if I win the nomination and go directly agai
nst whoever they happen to put up.
And for that reason, I have signed the pledge.
So I will be totally pledging my allegiance to the Republican Party and the cons
ervative principles for which it stands and we will go out and we will fight har
d and we will win. We will win.
And most importantly, we will make our country great again because that’s what
 it’s all about. We have to make our country great again.






This is a self-funded campaign. We have our heart in it. We have our soul in it.
 I don’t need money and I don’t want money.
And this is going to be a campaign like I think no other.
I’m not controlled by lobbyists. I’m not controlled by anybody. I’m contro
lled by the people of the country in order to make our country great again.






Yeah, I got nothing. I really got nothing.
The question was what did I get for signing the pledge? Absolutely nothing. Othe
r than the assurance that I would be treated fairly. And I’ve seen that over t
he last two months. They really have been very fair.






No, I have no intention of changing my mind.






Well, I think the big thing that’s changed is – and it’s been obvious to a
ll – number one, after I announced, we went up like a rocket ship.
Nobody thought I was going to run and they said "Oh, he won’t run and he won
t put in his papers. And he wouldn’t do all of this."
I did that. The papers in terms of the company turned out to be spectacular. It
s a great company. I built a great company. And all of the other papers have t
urned out to be very well received.
And I think the thing that’s changed is the fact that I went to number one pla
ce very quickly after I signed and after I in this building notified everybody t
hat I’d be running for President.
So I think the biggest thing is that I went early to number one and the RNC has 
treated me with great respect.
So that was very important.






No, I see no circumstances under which I would tear up that pledge.






Well, you don’t have to be met when you’re at 2%. It’s one of those things
. That’s the way life works. And I like Gov. [Chris] Christie, by the way.






Well, the Chairman asked if he could come up. You saw him. He was here a little 
while ago. And I was greatly honored that he did come up frankly.






Well, I think that when you get right down to it, we’re a nation that speaks E
nglish and I think that while we’re in this nation, we should be speaking Engl
ish. And that’s how assimilation takes. And that’s how – I mean, whether p
eople like it or not that’s how we assimilate and that’s how we go on to tha
t next phase and that next stage.
And that’s how people that don’t speak – and I’m not just talking about 
Spanish; I’m talking about from various parts of the world – that’s how th
ey will become successful and do great.
So I think it’s more appropriate to be speaking English.








Well, one of the things I want to do and I feel very strongly it’s a country b
ased on borders and our country is based on laws.
And when people come into the country illegally, we should not allow that.
And this is not from South America. This is not from Mexico. This is from all ov
er the world.
When people come illegally, we cannot allow that.
And I want people to come legally. I want very much to take care of our border b
ecause our southern border is a total mess. That’s been proven.
And interestingly, a couple of months ago when I announced, I made some very str
ong statements about the crime and the problems that were happening and I’ve b
een proven right.
And many of the people in this audience actually have apologized to me, which I 
very much appreciate. Of course, they haven’t done it publicly but these are m
inor details but someday they will.
The fact is that we are a nation that wants and needs borders. We’re a nation 
that wants and needs and is based on laws.
And we will make sure that that takes place.
With that being said, I want people to come into our country legally. I want to 
have a big, fat beautiful open door. I want people of great talent to come in fo
r Silicon Valley. I want engineers. I want physicists. I want people with great 
talent to come into the United States.
When people graduate from college, you can be number one in your class at Harvar
d or number one at Yale or the Wharton School of Finance or Princeton or Stanfor
d. And immediately if you’re not a citizen of the United States, you get throw
n out of the country. We want those people to stay.
We want people of great talent to be in the United States to work here and ultim
ately to become a citizen.






I don’t know enough about it to comment on it. Was she jailed? I really don’
t know much about it.






That’s absolutely false. I win at golf. I win at golf. That I can tell you.






Well, I understand how the system works maybe better than anybody. I understand 
the political system and I understand also very much a system for coming in for 
illegal immigrants.
Don’t forget if I didn’t bring up the subject of illegal immigration, you wo
uldn’t be asking the question. Nobody would be even talking about immigration.
 And immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big fac
tor.
Now, a lot of bad things have happened with respect to crime since I brought it 
up.
But if I didn’t bring it up, immigration would not even be a subject that we
re talking about and it happens to be a very important subject.
I have to say this: It can also be a very positive subject because I believe so 
strongly in immigration and I just – we have to stop illegal immigration and w
e have to look forward to great immigration done in a legal manner.
But if I didn’t bring it up, nobody would be talking about it.






Well, there is gridlock in Congress right now and that’s because there’s no 
leadership at the top. You have to be able to lead. You have to be able to get p
eople into your office. You have to get people go to them. Any way you want to d
o it. But you have to be able to lead. There is no leadership at the top.
Signing executive orders it not the way our country was supposed to be run.








I don’t want to talk about that. It’s inappropriate.






Tom Brady? Well, Tom Brady is a very good friend of mine. He’s a great guy.
For those of you who don’t know him, he’s a very honorable and an honest guy
 and a truly great athlete. He is really a very good friend of mine.
And I just spoke to him a little while ago. He’s so thrilled and so happy.
Tom Brady – I think what they’ve done is terrible. And he’s been exonerate
d as I understand it because I just heard about it. But I’m very happy for Tom
.
As far as the Commissioner is concerned, they’re having a rough year. Let’s 
face it. They’re having a very rough year.






Well, in Europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming.
 And it’s a huge humanitarian problem.
And I just say this. This United States has tremendous problems of their own. We
 have infrastructure that we have to fix. We have bridges and roads and tunnels 
and everything is falling apart. Our nation’s in such trouble.
That’s why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder I
 think will greatly help.
But we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall
, which we will get built, including all of the things we have – health care, 
which is a mess.
You know, if you look at Obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. Peo
ple are saying "This is turning out to be a disaster." Deductibles are through t
he roof. The deductibles on Obamacare it’s through the roof.
So we have a lot of problems. We have to take care of our vets. We have to build
 up our military.
Just the other day, Gen. [Ray] Ordierno said that the Army is in the worst shape
 in its history in terms of preparedness.
Now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating u
s, and you look at Hillary Clinton – and I’ve said she’s the worst Secreta
ry of State in the history of this country.
Now, in all fairness, because of the agreement that’s about to be finalized wi
th Iran, John Kerry may very well take her place.
I think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for Israel, for the Middl
e East. It’s going to lead to nuclear proliferation – the 24-day clause – 
everything about it. We don’t even get our prisoners back. You say who negotia
tes a thing like that?
That won’t happen, I can guarantee you, with a President Trump.






You’ll see it later. Yeah. They don’t want to hear it.






…I would say very simply I just want to be treated like everybody else.
You see, I was always the fair hair boy. I was a big contributor. Nobody knows t
he system. But I was on the other side. And I was the elite. I was the fair hair
 person.
Once I ran, all of a sudden I was a little bit of an outsider. I became an outsi
der because I was running. Because I wasn’t supposed to run.
I’m this businessman that people have given me great credit as being a great b
usinessman. But I’m not supposed to be running for office.
The fact is that our country is being killed on trade by China, by Japan, by Mex
ico both at the border and on trade.
And I’m not knocking those countries. Their leaders are much, much smarter tha
n our leaders. They are absolutely killing us.
China – taking our jobs, taking our money, taking our base. And think of this:
 We owe China $1.4 trillion and we’re paying them interest.
We owe Japan with all of the cars coming in the same amount – $1.4 trillion.
Now, that’s like a magic act. They send the cars in, they take our jobs, they 
do everything, and we owe them money. That’s not going to happen with me.








…Well, Jeb Bush is a very nice man. I’ll be honest. I think he’s a very ni
ce person. I think he’s a very low energy person and I don’t think that’s 
what the country needs.
I hear he’s going to spend a lot of money on negative ads on me.
And honestly, look, he’s getting the money from special interests. He’s gett
ing the money from lobbyists and his donors. And they’re making him do it beca
use he’s crashing in the polls.
So I don’t know what’s going to happen if he spends $20 million or $25 milli
on on negative ads – I don’t know. I know that my life will continue. I just
 don’t know. I mean nobody’s ever spent money on ads against me. But he prob
ably has to do that although it would not be the way I’ve done.
You know, one of the things I’m most honored about is that so far everybody th
at’s attacked me has gone down the tubes.
You have Lindsey Graham attacked me. He was at 3%. Now he’s at zero.
You have Perry attacked me. Now he’s getting out of the race. He was at 4% or 
5%. Now he’s getting out of the race. He was at zero.
Everybody – Rand Paul attacked me. I see the last poll – the Monmouth poll t
hat just came out today where I’m leading by double figures and Rand Paul is d
own to less than 2% and he attacked me.
Now, Jeb Bush also just went down in the Monmouth poll very big.
So I don’t know. Are they going to spend – he’s going to spend lobbyist mo
ney and special interest money. Remember this – they have total control over J
eb and Hillary and everybody else that takes that money.
Nobody knows the system better than me. They have total control.
You understand it very well because you’ve been covering it for a long time. T
hose people that are putting up those millions of dollars have total control ove
r your candidate.
I will tell you this: Nobody’s putting up millions of dollars for me. I’m pu
tting up my own money.
In fact, I feel a little bit foolish. People are offering me millions and millio
ns of dollars. You know, when you’re in first place, you can collect so much m
oney and I keep turning them down. I feel like – am I a fool? I feel very fool
ish.
And when I was in Iowa last week, I said "What do you think? Can I take – " On
e man offered me – a big lobbyist – offered $5 million for my campaign. I sa
id to the crowd in Iowa – great crowd, 4,000 people – I said "Can I take it?
 And would you believe I’m not going to do anything? I promise you. I swear to
 you I won’t do anything." And they all stood up and said "No, no, don’t tak
e it."
The fact is I’m the only self-funder. I’m putting up my own money.
I know there have been some super PACs – 5 or 6 super PACs – where people ar
e forming super PACs for Trump. I have nothing to do with them. As you know, you
’re not allowed to have anything to do with them. So I don’t know what they
re going to do.
Hopefully, if they’re going to do something it’s going to be nice. But I don
’t know anything about them.
But just in a nutshell, I’m funding my own campaign. Nobody else’s.
When people advertise – and I hope the voters can see this. Every negative ad 
they see about me is paid for by lobbyists and special interests. So just rememb
er that.






Our country could be doing much better. We have deficits that are enormous. We h
ave all bad trade agreements. We have an Army that the heads said is not prepare
d. We have a military that needs help and especially in these times.
We have nuclear weapons that you look at 60 Minutes they don’t even work. Okay
? If anybody saw that report. The phones don’t work. They’re 40 years old. T
hey have wires that are no good.
Nothing works. Our country doesn’t work.
Everybody wins except us. We need victories in this country. We don’t have vic
tories any more.
Our country will be great again, but right now our country has major problems.






I think it’s great that she’s [Carly Fiorina] in the debate. I was in favor 
of her being – I think she should be in the debate.
I don’t like the fact that there are 11 people now as I understand it. They’
re not getting rid of Rand Paul or somebody. But I think they should because the
re’s too many people.
Because when you have 11, you’re not getting to hear me and you’re not getti
ng to hear other people talking and I think that’s too bad. I think 11 is a lo
t of people.
But I was very happy that she got into the debate because frankly she deserves t
o be in the debate.








I think maybe he’s [Joe Biden] inclined not to get in the race. I think it’s
 going to depend on what happens with Hillary Clinton.
A lot of people think that she will not be able to make it legally from a crimin
al standpoint to the starting gate. I don’t know that to be true.
But I think it depends on what happens with her.
I think if she gets out, he will get in. I think if she stays in, he might not.
Who knows?






Oh, he’s not supposed to be here because he was here, he was up in my office a
nd he got the pledge and we’re very happy about that. We don’t want anything
 – and I told him. I said, "I don’t know if it’s appropriate Reince for yo
u to be here because I don’t want anything – " You know, you guys will end u
p saying he’s endorsing Trump.
So I suggested frankly that I’m fine with him not being here because I don’t
 want anybody to think he’s endorsing.
As far as Jeb is concerned, I watched him this morning on television and it’s 
a little bit sad.
Don’t forget. He was supposed to win. And he just doesn’t have the energy.
But what he does have is a lot of money that was given to him again by special i
nterests, donors, and lobbyists.
And I just hope that if he spends money on ads, which he may not – if I were h
im, I’d spend money on positive ads about himself. Because if he knocks me, as
suming people leave and maybe they’re at a point where they’re not going to 
leave because they’re fed up with what’s happening in this country, but I th
ink they’re going to go to people other than Jeb.






I don’t know. Right now, I’m interested in jobs. One thing – one of the gr
oups, it was actually CNN. I shouldn’t say that. But they did a very massive p
oll and I came out number one in leadership, number one on the economy, number o
ne in jobs producing.
And I don’t mean by number one. I mean like number one by many, many times. An
d I am so intent on putting people back to work in this country.
You know, we have 93 million people that are not in the workforce right now. 93 
million.
When they give up looking for a job, they take them off of the stats. They take 
them off the statistics. We have 93 million people.
We have 50 million people between poverty levels and welfare and all.
Our country can be great again. We have to put people back to work.






Would I bring my children into the administration? I will tell you they are very
 capable. The answer is probably not. But having them in would be very good. The
y’re very, very capable children.
The second part I won’t bother asking you. It’s no longer pertinent.






Kanye West? You know what? I’ll never say bad about him. You know why? Because
 he loves Trump. He loves Trump. He goes around saying "Trump is my all-time her
o." He says it to everybody.
So, Kanye West – I love him. Now, maybe in a few years I’ll have to run agai
nst him. I don’t know. So I’ll take that back.
But he’s been so nice to me.
You people have sort of seen because I’ve been a counter-puncher. I only hit p
eople when they hit me. Only. And Kanye West has been so great. I would never sa
y bad about him because he says such nice things about me.






No, my supporters are really supporting me because I’m very competent, because
 they know that I’m not going to let China rip us off. I’m not going to let 
Japan rip us off.
Japan is devaluing their yen. Very hard for Caterpillar and other companies to c
ompete against Komatsu – their big tractor maker – and others. We’re not g
oing to let this happen anymore.
They do – you talk about a trade imbalance. They have in Japan the biggest shi
ps you’ve ever seen pouring cars into Los Angeles, pouring them in. I’ve nev
er seen anything like it. We send them beef and they don’t even want it.
It’s going to end and they’re going to like us.
In this building, I have the largest bank in the world. Right up these elevators
. It’s a bank from China. By far the biggest bank in the world.
I get along great with China. I get along great with Japan. I get along great wi
th Mexico.
I love the people. I love the people of Mexico. I love the Hispanics. I have tho
usands of Hispanics right now working for me. Over the years, I have employed te
ns of thousands of Hispanics – many from Mexico. I have unbelievably great rel
ationships.
And in the package that we gave you, you’ll see there’s a poll and I’m num
ber one with Hispanics. You saw that. Number one with Hispanics.
So, look, for our country to be great, we have to be able to make great deals. W
e’re going to be great to the vets. We’re going to be terrific. Our military
 is going to be unbelievable.
All of these things – we’re going to get rid of Obamacare and come up with s
omething that’s much better and much less expensive. We’re going to get rid 
of it. We’re going to repeal it. It’s going to be out. Should have been out 
a long time ago. Should have never happened.
But we are going to take care of our country and we are going to bring back jobs
 and we’re going to bring back wealth to the United States so we can afford to
 save Social Security, which I’ll save without cuts, so that we can afford to 
do the kind of things that we have to do to make America great again.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. And here is your pledge.


…I’m going to tell you a story about Nashville. You’re not even going to b
elieve it. But it’s a very personal story. It’s a very special place to me f
or a very special reason.
But maybe more importantly, we have an incredible woman with us. She’s 92 year
s old. We don’t talk about age but she’s 92. And she looks magnificent. And 
her name is Beada and she’s become very famous. You know who Beada is, right?
Beada, where are you Beada? Look at her. So beautiful.
So, she just registered to vote for the first time in her life. She hasn’t see
n anybody that really did it to her. And for the first time in her life she just
 registered to vote and she’s going to vote for Trump. I think, right?
Thank you, darling. I really appreciate it. You know, she’s become so famous. 
She’s on television all over the world now.
I have to be nervous even talking to her, you’re so famous. It’s great.
Beada, thank you very much. I really appreciate it and everybody appreciates it.
Because there is a big, big growing like leaps and bounds silent majority out th
ere and we’re going to take this country back and we’re going to make this c
ountry so great again and so strong again.
…Well, I just want to tell you about Nashville. So, years ago – many years a
go – like I hate to say 40 but I won’t say 40 but close to 40, I came to Nas
hville. Did you ever hear of a company called Genesco? Genesco. Right? So, they 
were based in Nashville, Tennessee, and they owned the Bonwit Teller department 
store chain.
And I was a young guy and I came from Brooklyn in Queens, and I wanted to go int
o Manhattan. And I went into Manhattan and I did the Grand Hyatt Hotel and I did
 some other things that were good.
But the thing I wanted more than anything was Fifth Avenue between 57th and 56th
 Street, which is called the Tiffany Location right next to Tiffany. And that’
s what I wanted. I wanted that piece of property so badly.
I shouldn’t say that because you’re not supposed to want things like that so
 badly. God will get angry at me, right?
But I wanted it so badly and the company that owned it was Genesco based in Nash
ville, Tennessee.
And I came in and I came to Nashville, and I met with the heads of Genesco who w
ere really great people actually. And they were having a lot of difficulties. Th
ere were a lot of fighting and a lot of everything.
And I convinced them to sell me the land and the building. And I bought the Bonw
it Teller store Fifth Avenue from 57th to 56th street surrounding Tiffany. I bou
ght all the air rights and then ultimately I bought the air rights from Tiffany 
and I built Trump Tower. And to this day it’s one of the great buildings of th
e world and it’s one of the great successes.
And I love country music and I went to the Grand Ole Opry while I was here. And 
I just had such an incredible experience.
And when it came down to speaking because we could speak at a lot of places – 
you know, when you’re leading in every poll, they sort of want you. When you
re not leading in the polls, like so many of these guys, they don’t want you 
at all.
And we’ll talk about the polls in a second.
But I had a lot of choices for this morning, and I guess I could have also gone 
and played golf like the President does all the time, right? But I decided let
s do this.
And I really chose Nashville because the experience is one of my – it’s not 
my biggest deal but in terms of a deal it’s so important and it’s been such 
a great – from the day I built it it was a home run. And it all really took pl
ace because of Nashville, Tennessee. So, I really – it’s an honor to be with
 you folks, I can tell you. Real honor.


So, coming over I heard and I watched television – you know, they have all the
se cameras back there and they’re live. And I guess we’re live on CNN, we’
re live on so many different things. It’s always difficult. You know, when you
’re always live, you’ve got to change up your speech. You can’t make the s
peech over and over…
The other candidates don’t get covered live ever, except for the debate.
So you know, they had 24 million people on the debate. Now they think when the n
ew numbers come out they’ll be even substantially higher than that.
So I would’ve said they would have had a million or two. So I say they have 24
 million people. And I say, well now the second debate, which is on CNN – that
 was on Fox, maybe I should ask for a lot of money and give the money to charity
. Does that make sense? All to charity. All to charity.
When I said that to the writers at Time Magazine, they were nice enough to put m
e on the cover with actually a nice story. And I said, you know, and I sort of t
hought I said it off the record but they put it in Time Magazine. So now – may
be should I ask for charity, maybe a nice Nashville charity and American Cancer 
Society and AIDS research – so many of this – there’s so many good – Alz
heimer’s – you know, there’s so many things going on. Maybe I should ask f
or a lot of money or I’m not showing up.
You know, it’s interesting. So they’ll get 2 million – a million to 2 mill
ion people at the debates. You know, they’ve been doing them for a long time. 
They don’t do great, especially the early Republican debate. Like you know the
 expression – it draws flies? That’s what it draws.
So this was one of the biggest shows in the history of cable television. I think
 it might have been the biggest in terms of political in the history of cable te
levision.
Naturally I took full credit for it, which in all fairness I should. I should.
So bottom line I think I might ask for a lot of money for charity but you know. 
But I did say is it a little hokey if I do that? Maybe it’s not so nice. So wh
at do you think? Should I do it or not? Maybe not. I don’t know.
Here’s the thing. If I don’t do it, CNN just makes a lot of money. I don’t
 care about CNN. Honestly. No, they’re going to make a lot of money. They just
 shut off their camera.
They’re actually very nice.
But they’re going to make a lot of money and, you know, it’s something we sh
ould consider. So we’ll all consider it together.
But coming over today, I saw that they were having the illegal immigrants come i
n and somebody mentioned the term the DREAMERs having to do with children and, y
ou know, the dreams of children. And these are people who come over to the count
ry and they’re DREAMERs.
And I said, "What about our children?" Why can’t our children that are in the 
country, why can’t they be the dreamers? Nobody ever talks about that. No, no,
 nobody ever talks about that.
You know, we talk about the DREAMERs, we talk about illegal immigrants, who by t
he way are treated better than our vets.
You know, our vets are incredible. No, no, the illegal immigrants in many cases
are treated better than our veterans who are the greatest people we have – o
ur wounded warriors are – these are the greatest people we have.
And another thing nice about being able to make speeches without having to hire 
some guy to write and keep writing and reading it and put a teleprompter then sa
y, "Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Nashville, it’s wonderful – " you kno
w, is that I can sort of be very current. Okay? I can be very, very current. I c
an talk about what’s happening.
This morning on the television, they had a whole story about the Veterans Admini
stration and the hospitals how people are waiting on lines to get in. These are 
our veterans. These are the people that got hurt fighting for us. Maybe we would
n’t be here if it wasn’t for them, to be honest with you. I mean, that’s p
ossible too.
They had a story this morning on Fox, on CNN and a number of them where the vete
rans are just treated terribly and they showed a desk where there’s supposed t
o be people behind this desk and they showed this desk and there’s nobody ther
e. And the veterans – I don’t know, probably some of you saw it, the veteran
s are saying "Where are the people?"
And then, they said, "What happened?" And they said, "This happens all the time.
" There was not even – nobody even there! And two weeks ago on Wednesday, they
 had the longest wait in the history – in the history of the Veterans Administ
ration for people wanting to see a doctor.
When I go to a doctor, if I have to wait like 9 minutes, I’m like "Get me – 
" I’d go crazy. It’s true.
Remember the old days when the doctor used to come to your house? Right?


Beada remembers that. You’d have a cold. The doctor would come over carrying a
 little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. And he’d co
me over to your house, check you out, fine. Those days don’t exist anymore.
You know, we’re in age of Obamacare where nothing exists.
By the way, we will repeal and replace Obamacare. That I can tell you. That I ca
n tell you.
But, so two weeks ago Wednesday, the longest wait in the history of the Veterans
 Administration. So that if you go to the doctor’s office, men and women are w
aiting four days, three days, one was five days.
One case was five days or six days, finally got to see the doctor and the doctor
 excused himself because he was going on vacation.
Now, you think about that. Can you imagine waiting even a day or a half a day? B
ut these people are waiting four, five days.
So the wait’s now the longest in history and that’s the way we’re treating
 our greatest people and that’s not right and we’re going to change that. We
’re going to change that.
We have right now – and people don’t know this. You know, they see these pho
ny statistics put out by politicians basically. All talk, no action politicians.
 And I mean on both sides in all fairness.
You know, I’m a Republican. I’m a conservative. But I’m just as angry with
 the Republicans because they go to Washington, something happens – they becom
e weak. You know, they go to Washington – "We’re going to stop Obamacare. We
’re going to stop this. We’re going to do this. We’re going to do that."
Then they walk into these magnificent buildings with those incredible vaulted ce
ilings, and they go "Oh, I made it, darling, I made it. I vote for you. I vote f
or you. I vote for Obamacare expansions. I’ll do whatever you want me to do. I
’m in Washington."
It’s amazing. Isn’t it amazing? Don’t you agree?
I won’t happen to me, I promise.
And if it does, you can let me know about it. But it won’t. I promise. I promi
se.
But you know, they show those phony statistics where we’re 5.4% unemployment. 
5.4%. The real number. You know, I actually saw a number it could be 42%, okay, 
believe it or not.
But when you think about it, we have 93 million people that are right now out of
 the labor force. 93 million people. Of the 93 many of these people want jobs. A
nd they quit looking.
So if you’re looking for a job and you can’t find it and you stop for a whil
e – you know, after a while you sort of like "It’s not happening. It’s not
 going to happen." I don’t know what they do. But they stop. They are consider
ed statistically employed. Okay?
So, we have 93 million people out of the labor force. I mean, think about it. It
’s hard to believe.
We have 50 million people in poverty. These are very new numbers. 50 million peo
ple in poverty. Taking our money.
Japan’s taking our money.
Mexico is beating us at the border and on trade. By the way, they’re killing u
s on trade. You know that.
In fact, you just lost a big car plant to Mexico in Tennessee. Remember? Recentl
y front page Wall Street Journal. A plant that you were going to have…
[Comment on a supporter’s sign]
You know this is a movement, folks. This is not like maybe even about me. I don
t want it to be about me. This is about common sense. It’s about doing the r
ight thing.
One of the things that came out in the poll, which was really amazing. Some of t
he polls, I mean, hey, in Iowa, we’re leading big. Those are great people. We 
just left Iowa. We had such an amazing evening. 4,000 people in a room that neve
r had that many people and it was a happening.
We just left Alabama, which was unbelievable. 31,000 people in a stadium, and it
 was supposed to pour. And it did. It poured the minute my speech – that’s l
ike luck. That’s from God. The minute the speech was over, we got it and it po
ured. We had 31,000 people and it was the most unbelievable.
And the poll just came out in Alabama, leading big in Alabama. Leading big in Io
wa. Leading tremendously big in New Hampshire. Great people. Leading really big 
in New Hampshire.
Leading big in Florida. How about Florida? I have a governor. We have a low ener
gy governor and we have a Senator and we’re leading big in Florida. How do you
 do that when you have a Senator who’s sitting, you have a governor who’s be
en there for eight years and Trump – ? I love Florida and I’m there a lot. W
hat could be in Florida? Great weather. You have great weather but Florida has g
reat weather. Big advantage.


But you know, I’m leading big in Florida.
But one of the polls came out because in South Carolina and North Carolina, I’
m leading really big.
And in South Carolina, a poll came out and we had a statement that my level of p
opularity or favorability – you know, I’m the only one that can get a poll a
nd it comes out and these guys in the back with all those red lights on will say
 – I think I had one poll where I’m 41% – almost 41% – can you imagine? 
41%. There’s 17 people. So I’m at 41% with 17 people and they said "Trump’
s at 41% but look" – you can’t even hear it. You know, "Trump says bleh". No
body knows what they just said.
"But there are some people that don’t like him."
It’s unbelievable. I’m the only one that wins these polls and I get negative
 publicity. No, it’s incredible. The press, ayeyayay.
…Well, yesterday, you might have seen me. I was in South Carolina. I made a sp
eech. I had to bring it up.
The New York Times to me is a big deal. You know, I’m from New York. Very libe
ral paper but that’s okay. You know, not everybody could be like us. But it’
s still the New York Times. Right? We have to admit, still the New York Times.
And I’m on the front page a lot on the New York Times, and to be on the front 
page of the New York Times is a big deal.
But yesterday or two days ago, they had story about me and they had some low lev
el Hispanic commentator. Low level guy. This one didn’t like me.
By the way, I think I’m going to win the Hispanic vote and I think – you kno
w, in Nevada, I won the Hispanic poll. They love me.
I love the Hispanic people. Incredible energy. Incredible people. I love the peo
ple. I have so many – I have thousands that work for me and thousands and thou
sands over the years and have worked for me. They’re great people.
And I said, "I’m going to win". And a lot of the Hispanics that are here legal
ly, they don’t want people coming in illegally. You know it’s true. It’s t
rue.
So there’s this poll that comes out. I think it was in South Carolina where we
’re way up and Lindsey at 4% and he’s the Senator. I’m at 30%. So I wrote 
him a note, "Congratulations. I’m only beating you in your home state by 26 po
ints."
So anyways, who cares.
But they did something that nobody reported. They say, "Oh but do people like Tr
ump?" By the way, this election is not going to be like.
I think I’m a nice person. I love people. I want to help people.
Women’s health issues to me are very important. To Jeb Bush it wasn’t import
ant because he didn’t want to fund them. And then he said, "Oh, I misspoke."
But you know, I really want to be a nice person and I am a nice person.
But I think it’s actually going to be an election based on competence. We’re
 tired of being like the patsy for everybody. I really do. I think it’s time.
But in the poll, this was the Monmouth poll. Big poll. Highly re – "In another
 act of political magic…Trump managed to flip his favorability rating from neg
ative" – nobody wrote this by the way. Nobody said it. Nobody reported it. "Fr
om negative to positive."
This is an exact quote. I have like this photographic memory so I don’t need 
 but I want to be sure because if I used the word "the" incorrectly, they’ll
 say, "He didn’t – "
"Favorability rating from negative to positive in one poll during the span of a 
month". A feat that Monmouth University’s Patrick Murray’s highly respected 
pollster called "astounding".
Called it "astounding." Nobody else wrote about it.
"That defies any rule in presidential politics that I’ve ever seen," said this
 highly respected man.
Murray, the director of the polling institute, said he flipped it from 20% to 52
% in one month and he said that he’s never seen that before.
And you know what? That’s because people have heard me and they say "You’re 
such a nice person." No, they want – they say he’s a man – I’ve made a t
remendous amount of money. I’ve had tremendous success. And I don’t say that
 braggingly. That’s the kind of thinking we need in the country. I mean, whate
ver it is.
But to me, that statement was more important than actually literally killing eve
rybody in the poll. We were much, much higher, more than double everybody.
And we are more than double everybody.


You saw the Quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. I was the sam
e thing. Much, much higher – double and triple and quadruple many of these can
didates.
And the reason is people in this country are smart. They don’t believe a lot o
f what they see in the media because if you believe these people – you know, w
hy are they doing this? I mean, why are they even saying it?
You’d think that if somebody’s good for the country – and I’ll be great 
for the country because I’m going to make great deals for our country. We don
t win anymore. Our country doesn’t win anymore.
You’d think somebody – even a liberal person or a Democrat liberal and I mea
n, really liberal. Somebody who’s going to make the country – why are they k
nocking it? Why are they knocking? Why do they fight?
You’d think they’d say "Let’s do it. It’s good. It’s good for all of u
s."
Because our country is in trouble. We owe now $19 trillion. You know, I’ve bee
n saying $18 [trillion] for a while now. But now it starts to go up quickly.
And by the way, when Obamacare kicks in, which is really kicking in in ’16, yo
u want to see bad deficits? You want to see it go up? You’re going to really s
ee it go up because that has a huge negative impact not only on jobs but on the 
deficit itself because of the costs. And it’s no good.
Have you noticed – and you’ve seen it yourself – the premiums have gone th
rough the roof? Right? The deductibility – unless you’re close to death, you
’re never going to use it. You can’t use it because the deductibility is so 
high.
But the premiums are up 30%, 40%, and 50% and more. It’s a disaster.
And on top of that, it’s going to cost the country a fortune. So it’s not on
ly costing you a lot of money, it’s going to cost the country a fortune.
So we have to do something about it. And we have to do something importantly abo
ut it.
But when I see the people on television and I have to tell you I won’t mention
 names, some of them when they hear my name – I was talking – we have a grea
t reporter today from the Wall Street Journal with us. Okay? Who came down. And 
she actually said "Some of them when they hear your name it looks like they’re
 a boiler waiting to explode." It’s true.
…Now, number one, they look bad because they said – do you remember the begi
nning? Like three, four months ago. They said, "He’s a clown. He’s a clown. 
Just having fun."
You know, I went to a great school. I did great. I did – everything was great.
 I came out. I made a fortune, which I want to use the brain for you, but I made
 a fortune.
I then did a book called The Art of the Deal and many bestsellers. The Art of th
e Deal being probably the best selling business book of all time. Who has read T
he Art of the Deal? Yeah, most people. Most everybody.
I jokingly say but I mean it – the Bible tops it by a long way. I say that. I 
say that. Said it the first time in Iowa. People liked that. But it’s true. No
thing tops the Bible.
But the Art of the Deal – great success. Many books – bestsellers. Many, man
y bestsellers.
Then I do The Apprentice. I’ve never done television. I do The Apprentice. It
s one of the most successful shows ever on television by the way.
And NBC renewed the Apprentice. You know that. Right? For me.
They came up to my office, the head of Comcast – great guy – I won’t use n
ames. Just say "Steve". No, honestly he’s a great guy. One of the best in the 
country. He came up with the heads of NBC six months ago and they said, "Donald,
 we’re renewing The Apprentice. Please, you’ll have to do – you have to do
 it."
I said, "Honestly, Steve, I’m running for President. I want to make our countr
y great again. I want to make -"
And they didn’t believe me. And I said it four times. They didn’t believe me
. Nobody believed that I was going to run. Nobody.
My wife didn’t even believe me, but now she does. But she actually said "If yo
u actually say you’re going to run, you’re going to do great because people 
like you." She actually said "They’d love you" but I don’t want to brag. But
 she said, "If you actually run – not you may run, you may not run, who knows?
" But she said "If you actually say -"
So the NBC guys come up – terrific people. I mean, honestly I had a great rela
tionship with NBC for 12 years. We had many, many, you know number ones and The 
Apprentice continues to do great. You know, last season you know how well it did
. So they wanted to renew it for many, many shows.
In fact, Mark Burnett called up. You know Mark Burnett. He did Survivor, Apprent
ice. So Mark Burnett, who’s a great guy, he calls up and he goes "I don’t be
lieve it. You’re not taking a renewal." The word is renewal. I said, "That’s
 right, Mark. I’m going to run for President." "No, no, no, you have to – no
body doesn’t take a renewal. It’s unheard of in primetime television. Two ho
urs primetime. Are you crazy?" I said, "Mark, I have to do this. I’ve done so 
well in this country. I have to do it."


We can save our country. We can save our country.
So anyways, the bottom line, NBC renewed it. I told them I’m not doing it, and
 then they finally believed me when I actually announced.
They don’t like me anymore. It’s amazing. They do not like me.
But it’s too bad. Too bad. Well, thank you.
You know, the funny thing about The Apprentice – there have been 15 copies of 
The Apprentice. Every single one of them failed. So then a reporter said to me, 
"Why do you think that is?" I said "Because I’m special." And I was kidding. I
 was doing it sarcastically – I mean, I sort of meant it to be honest, right? 
But I was sort of kidding. And they wrote it and I hated the way it looked in wr
iting. You know, it sounds good when you say it but oh it looks so bad in writin
g.
But so I had a great experience. So here I am – great schools, great brain, gr
eat success, built a great company, do The Apprentice, tremendous success. When 
I did The Apprentice, a certain critic said "It will never be successful" becaus
e you know to have a big hit – a really a number one hit – you have to – a
nd you remember that first season it had one of the highest ratings ever. The fi
nale of The Apprentice? Aye! Remember with the great Bill Rancic. Remember how t
hat was? Incredible. But to have a great success, you have to have women.
And I’ll never forget – I saved the article. Right? Like Harry Truman saved 
it where it said, "Truman loses" and he actually won. Remember? But I saved this
 article. They said "Trump can never succeed on television because why would wom
en want to watch Donald Trump?" And I said, "Am I so bad? Am I so bad?" Tell me,
 am I so bad?
And it turned out that women were the biggest base. I mean, those were the ones 
that liked…So you know I saved those things.
But no matter how you cut it, we can do something so incredible. And honestly, i
t’s going to be hard. It’s going to be a lot of work. It’s going to be a l
ot of time. I wouldn’t leave the White House. You know, Obama always leaves th
e White House. Think of it. You’re elected President. You’re in the White Ho
use. Why would you want to leave? I think I’d maybe never leave! How cool is t
hat?
He leaves to go to some place and go fundraisers. I’ll try – I don’t know 
maybe there’s some rules against it. So maybe I can’t. But I’ll do the fun
draisers in the White House.
He and his wife left – I think one was doing the Ellen show another was doing 
another show right next door in Burbank, California. They left a couple of hours
 difference. One took Air Force One; one took a beautiful Boeing 757. Two planes
. A little bit different timing going to the same location, going to the same ai
rport to do different shows.
And I say why? Why aren’t they flying at least the same plane?
Now, I know what those suckers cost because I happen to have one of them right? 
So I know what it costs to operate these planes…More importantly, the time and
 the energy. But I would have said Ellen or I would have said whoever was doing 
the show, "Let’s do it from the White House." This way, I take a half and hour
, I go back, I don’t spend any money of the taxpayers.
…And you know the funny thing is that whoever the host is would like it better
. "We’re doing our show live from the White House or something".
So we don’t pay any money. We don’t have to fuel up Air Force One, which cos
ts you – do you ever see what it costs to travel in these things? With hundred
s and hundreds of security and you’re closing down Burbank, California.
I mean, every time Obama comes to Manhattan to do a fundraiser, which is often, 
I say "What’s going on? You can’t move. They closed down all the streets. Th
ey closed down the city."
And he could do it from like Washington. In fact, he could do it in my new hotel
 that I’m buying which is only a couple of blocks.
…It’s true. I’m building this incredible hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue and 
it’s going to be incredible. The Old Post Office. And I actually got it from t
he Obama administration, which is hard to believe. People say "What’s going on
? How did Trump get it?"
One of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the General Ser
vices Administration, which owned it. You know, they’re the ones that made the
 decision. And I got it and we’re building this phenomenal hotel – Trump Int
ernational Hotel – right on Pennsylvania Avenue directly between Congress and 
the White House. Right? It’s going to open just in time – and by the way, li
sten to this one. We’re under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear t
hat from government? Way under budget.
So we’re actually going to be opening and it’ll be great. But he can use my 
hotel. I’ll let him use it free. You just come in, use it, go back to the Whit
e House. But you don’t have to do that.
But you’d say to yourself why – you know, it’s a mindset. But more importa
ntly even in the travel, we have so many things that we have to do to straighten
 out our country. You don’t want to waste time. You’ve got to do this. You
ve got to make deals.


I’ve got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. 
Carl Icahn – incredible guy. Right? Incredible guy. Great deal maker.
I’ve got some of the greatest deal makers in the world. They’re all calling 
me too. They said "You didn’t ask me."
I have these guys calling me up – the best in the world.
Now, I know the best. I also know guys that are overrated. I know guys that you 
haven’t heard of that honestly are phenomenal. I know a lot that you have hear
d of that aren’t really that good, that are overrated in my opinion.
But they’re the best in the world. And they’re calling me. They don’t want
 money. They’re worth billions of dollars.
But when I put, let’s say, Carl Icahn and I’ll say "Carl, do me a favor. Han
dle China." We’re going to make a great deal. No, no, we’re going to make a 
great deal because that’s what happens. You know, that’s what happens.
So, we’re going to take back our trade.
If you look at China, if you look at Japan – I was in Los Angeles a few weeks 
ago. I saw ships – the biggest ships I’ve ever seen with cars pouring our, p
ouring out one after another, made in Japan, very nice. Everything’s nice. Exc
ept that it doesn’t help us. When does it help us? When does it help us?
We sell them beef. Beef. And then they don’t want it. Because you know, do you
 ever see what’s going on over there? We sell the beef and it goes over there 
and it’s very perishable. So by the time it gets over there, then they turn it
 over "We don’t want it."
They have cars coming from these massive, massive ships. Massive. And they just 
pour off the ships.
And I say, "What are we doing? How stupid are we? No tax, no nothing."
And I’m a free trader. I believe in free trade. I have to say. But I have to b
e fair trade.
When you look at Japan, they take in money up here and we give them money down h
ere. We get nothing by comparison. It’s like peanuts.
Balance it out, fellows. Balance it out. Got to balance it.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. As you know, China has – it’s prob
ably the greatest theft in the history of the United States what China has done 
to us. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken ever
ything. They’ve taken so much.
And they’re creating a bubble and you know interestingly we’re so intertwine
d that now the bubble could take us down if it explodes, which at some point it 
might.
And we’ve got to be smart.
I made so much money dealing with China. I made hundreds of millions, probably b
illions, dealing with China.
The Bank of America building in San Francisco – I own a big chunk of that, whi
ch nobody knows. Nobody knows.
You know, all these guys come to Forbes. "Oh, Trump’s worth only $5 billion or
 $4 billion." Or whatever. "He’s only worth $5 billion." It’s like a bankrup
t magazine…They don’t even know my numbers. They said, "Well, we haven’t b
een able to look at about 400 of his companies."
So I filed. Interestingly, they said "He’ll never run. He’ll never run."
…Then I announced. Then they said, "Oh, he’ll never file his form whatever."
 That’s a single page where basically you’re signing your life away and it h
as to be done within 14 days of the announcement.
I signed my form. And they said, "Well, he’ll never ever put in his financials
." And you have like 90 days or something. And they said, "He’ll ask for exten
sions but he’ll never show because he’s probably not as rich as people think
."
But actually I’m much richer and I put in my financials – it’s true. It’
s true.
And Forbes and another group said, "No, no, we don’t know what these companies
 are."
I put in these massive financials, and you know, I was so proud. I might have fi
led if I wasn’t going to run. I wanted to show people. I wanted to brag. It’
s such a great company I’ve built.
So they said, "He’ll never put in his financials." I put in the financials. An
d everybody – they’re much bigger. It’s a much bigger – you know, very l
ittle debt, tremendous value. And really great assets. Iconic assets. You know, 
iconic. Doral, Turnberry in Scotland. I mean, I have some of the greatest real e
states in the world. And I’m very proud of it.
But they say, "He’ll never file. He’ll never file."
Then they see all these companies. And you know, they have boxes. And because it
 wasn’t really meant for somebody like me, and they have these little boxes. T
hey say, "Is it worth or does he make $1 million, from $1 million to $5 million,
 from $5 million to $10 million, from $10 million to $20 million?" The last box 
is $50 million or more. $50 million or more.
So like I have a lot of buildings that are worth much more than that. I have a l
ot of assets that are worth much more than that.
So it says "$50 million or more". So I checked many of them. I don’t know how 
many. I think there’s 23 of them. Can you believe it? So I checked like, I don
’t know, I think it’s 23. I could be wrong. Oh, they’ll kill me if I’m w
rong. But I’m not sure. But I think it’s like 23 boxes. $50 million or more.
So you know when some of these guys do to try and always marginalize you? They a
dded up 23 50s. Now, some of the 50s are worth a billion. Some of them are worth
 more than a billion.


So it says "$50 million or more", I go 50. So they’ll take $50 million for a b
uilding that might be worth a billion and honestly much more.
And they add them up and they say "Well, he’s worth $2.9 billion." It’s real
ly – this is the press. And they have no clue. Those statements aren’t reall
y meant for me – it’s not meant for a guy like me.
But with all of that the statements were so good. They’re so good. They’re s
o good.
And you know, one of the things I’m doing and last night was incredible. We ha
d an amazing event in Massachusetts. Right? Oh, look at this, we have a wit- wha
t the hell are you doing in Nashville? What are you doing?
…Anyway, so here I am. I spent millions of dollars during the course on jet fu
el. Okay? Like a lot of money on jets.
But somebody puts up a sign $100 to go to this thing. I didn’t know who did it
. But somebody puts up a sign.
So all over the place, I’m spending millions of dollars. I’m turning down mi
llions. I don’t want your money. I don’t want your money.
Somebody puts a sign up talking about $100 contribution, which you didn’t have
 to make. But they put it up. It’s all over CNN. "Trump is asking for $100."
I fly my plane some place it costs me a fortune. The fuel. The $100. The money t
hat I raised last night, which says it all it goes towards paying off like the e
xpense or something. The guy that had it is a great guy – Ernie. A great guy. 
Really successful guy. You know him, right? Ernie. He’ll sell you a car any da
y of the week, right?
And you know the guy is – like 2,000 people showed up. Let him get a little de
ferment of the roast beef or whatever the hell they’re serving.
So they put up a sign. I don’t want the money. I might like $4 or $5 million. 
That’s hard to turn down. But the hundred dollars times some people and we let
 the vets there, we let most of the people I think came in free. And I end up wi
th this big story – "Trump accepting contributions".
I can’t believe it. I got so angry at my people. Because somebody put up a sig
n saying $100. And honestly, first of all, it’s like peanuts. It doesn’t mea
n anything. But they used to it to try and marginalize. They always do. They alw
ays do.
The bottom line is I am self-funding my campaign. I’m self-funding. I don’t 
want to have anybody giving. I don’t need money. Now, with that being said, th
e small money comes in and it’s not a lot of money but it’s great money. Lik
e Beada might send me some money. Beada will send me some money.
But a woman sent me $7 with a beautiful letter from Georgia. Another person sent
 me $12. Small money. And some sent me $1,000. But it doesn’t amount to a lot.
 But that I do like coming in because they invest in the campaign.
How do I take the $7 check, right, and send it back to the person who sent it to
 me from Georgia? "Dear So and So, I’m sorry I don’t really want your money.
" How do you write a letter like that?
I want them to invest in it. You know, but they’re not going to tell me not to
 do this or not to do that for China because they are lobbyists for China and th
ey gave me $5 million.
I had a big lobbyist asked me to have – he wanted to give me $5 million for my
 campaign. I turned him down. I turned him down.
And then I see this story on CNN last night. It was disgusting. That look there
s a sign – $100! Somebody does a sign. It actually was a beautiful sign if y
ou want to know the truth. It was so beautiful. It was beautifully done. And the
y’re doing this big thing about all day long last night about – I said we ha
d this incredible event and they destroyed it by trying to marginalize. And that
’s the press. That’s the media.
Yeah, the criminal media. I mean, there’s truth to it. No, because a lot of ti
mes they know it’s wrong.
But I just want to tell you so important to me and last night it was such an inc
redible event. It had to be a record for a house. The guy got a beautiful house,
 got a big lawn, put up a tent. But we had 2,000 people. It had to be a record.
The spirit in that group, the spirit in Alabama, the spirit was so incredible. T
he spirit in our last meeting in Iowa. Don’t forget.
When I went to Iowa and you know what I love? I’m leading with Tea Party. Big.
 I love Tea Party. I love the Tea Party. Tea Party people, stand up and take a b
ow. You have not been treated fairly. No, you haven’t been treated fairly.
You have not been treated fairly.


You know, people talk about the Tea Party and you talk about marginalizing, at l
east I have a microphone where I can fight back. You people don’t.
The Tea Party people are incredible people. These are people that work hard and 
they love the country and then they just get beat up all the time by the media. 
It’s disgusting.
And you will be surprised how big you are. You don’t know how big you are. You
 don’t know the power that you have. I mean it. You don’t know the power tha
t you have.
The Tea Party and you can call it anything that you want. I don’t care about n
ames. But the Tea Party has tremendous power.
I talked silent majority. But the silent majority is more than Tea Party. It’s
 Democrats. It’s poor people. It’s rich people. It’s everybody. It’s eva
ngelicals.
One of the things that made me so happy – I’m a protestant. I’m a presbyte
rian. Right? – is that I had a recent poll and they did a beautiful – like t
hese polls are great. You know, guys like Jeb Bush and Hillary, they hire pollst
ers. They pay them hundreds of thousands of dollars. What do you have to do that
 for? Every week they come out with a new poll. Right?
Hey, I’m rich. I could hire a hundred poll. I don’t want to waste money. You
 know, why should I pay?
I know in one case…like $150,000 a month. And you know, then they’re arrogan
t guys. They think they’re hot stuff and they tell the candidates what to say.
 "You’ve got to say this. You’ve got to be politically correct."
No way. I don’t have time to be political. No, it’s true. It’s true.
I don’t have time to be political. You know, it takes a lot of time to be poli
tically correct.
You saw the anchor baby thing. Did you see that with where I’m on? And somebod
y from…it’s the same network – CNN again – he said, "You know the name a
nchor baby is very insulting?" I said, "What would you call it?" And he gave me 
like nine words. "A baby of illegal immigrant who was brought to the country to 
this and that." I said, "How can I say that? It’s too long."
It’s anchor baby.
And then Bush – Jeb. Jeb Bush gets caught because he is such a nice person. Ho
nestly.
If you want a nice person, honestly you should vote for Jeb. The country is goin
g to go to hell but we won’t talk of that. No, no, but if you want a nice pers
on.
So Jeb has a memo that he signed of basically a politically correct memo. You kn
ow, don’t say this, don’t say that. All these things. Pages of stuff.
But one of the things – "Never use the term ‘anchor baby’."
So all of a sudden, he’s using the term anchor baby just last week.
And with me, when I use it nobody criticizes me. They expect me. They gave up. O
kay?
With him, they killed him. They just killed him. It didn’t stop.
And then he blamed it on the Asians. He said, you know – did you see that? And
 then the New York Times did an editorial "How dare you attack the Asians?"
So he wanted to steer away from the Hispanics. He said, "Well, you know, the Asi
ans come in and they also have anchor babies." And now the Asians all hate him. 
It’s true.
But the Asians love me and I love them. I love them.
So he has a memo and he signs the memo and it says – a couple of years ago –
 "Don’t use this term", and now he’s using it because he has to.
Because baby – you know, think of it. Think of it. I want to build a wall. Oka
y? So easy. So easy. When this clown – Jose Reyes or whatever the hell his nam
e – no, he’s a baseball player. Ramos. Actually Jose Reyes is a baseball pla
yer. He’s a nice baseball player. But when Ramos got up the other day screamin
g and ranting and going crazy and I had all these reporters. Actually, the repor
ters were mostly on my side because they all had their hand up but this guy star
ts screaming.
So I even had liberal people from CBS – I actually said to the CBS guy "Yes?" 
and this guy stands up and starts screaming.
So when he – and I actually got a lot of credit for the way we handled him. I 
didn’t do anything like – I didn’t do anything. Except for the Times. And 
that’s what I alluded to before. The Times said, "Donald Trump railed at him a
nd screamed at him." I didn’t scream at him. But he was screaming at me.
And much worse than that, they said I wore a toupee. Can you believe it? I don
t wear a toupee, and I proved it – I won’t bring anybody up. I won’t brin
g anybody up. But I don’t.
But think of it. I’m in the front page of the New York Times and in the first 
sentence in the first paragraph has this announcer – this Hispanic announcer t
hat nobody ever heard of – saying they called him something which means he wea
rs a toupee. And I don’t.


So, I’m on the front page of the New York Times. I can’t even talk about it.
 I’m embarrassed to talk about it.
But they also said, I was essentially screaming at this guy from Univision, who 
I happen to be suing for $500 million. They didn’t mention that.
They also didn’t mention that his daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Did you 
know that? His daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Oh, you didn’t know that. O
h. No, they didn’t mention that. No, no.
They said I was wearing a toupee and I was screaming but they didn’t. No, he
s screaming at me.
So we very nicely – and then we let him come back and we actually had a nice t
alk. He actually seemed like a nice guy after he calmed down a little bit. You k
now, he’s a very emotional man.
But, he said, "You can’t build a wall because you can’t do it."
So, 2,000 years ago in China – we always get back to China – 2,000 years ago
, the Great Wall of China – oh, we’d like to have a wall. This is a serious 
wall. Okay? This is a wall you don’t go through so easy.
They built a wall 2,000 years ago that’s 13,000 miles. Think of that. That’s
 a big wall. That’s serious wall, right? This was 2,000 years ago. I mean, it 
took them like 500 years to build it so you know, I got to be a little bit – y
ou know, took a long time. But 13,000 miles that’s a long time. They had no tr
actors. They didn’t have Caterpillars.
Of course, today, we use Komatsus because they’re made in Japan and you could 
buy them cheaper. How stupid is that? Because they devalued the yen so much and 
people are buying Komatsus instead of Caterpillars. Caterpillar’s stock is dow
n. It’s terrible. We’ll change that around. Believe me. Believe me.
But, they build this wall. Now, we have really 15 – I would say – look we ha
ve 2,000 miles as opposed to 13,000. But you don’t need it on all of it becaus
e some you have natural landscaping, some you have a lot of places.
And actually 10 years ago, everybody wanted the wall built. Hillary wanted it bu
ilt. But they couldn’t.
Because I’m a great builder. What I do best is build. I’m not a rendering gu
y. I do the building and then do the rendering. A lot of these guys come in with
 renderings and it never gets built. Does that make sense to anybody? I’m the 
opposite. I get it built.
So, one of the reasons it couldn’t get built is because they couldn’t get an
 approved environmental impact study. Do you believe this? No, no, they had cert
ain snail doggers and different things. They couldn’t get it. They could not g
et an environmental impact study approved to build a wall.
And they’re killing people. We have illegal immigrants. You see that with Kate
 in San Francisco. You see it with Jamiel. You see it with so many people.
Last night in Massachusetts I met some unbelievable families that have been deva
stated by illegal immigrants. They come into this country and kill members of th
eir family.
Last week in California, a 66-year-old veteran – a female, a veteran, 66 – g
ot raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. Raped, sodomized, tortured, and kille
d. 66-years-old. By an illegal immigrant that they caught, that they caught luck
ily.
But this is what we have. We have stupid people in our government and we have pe
ople pouring across the border. And you know what? We have great border patrol p
eople. I went there. You probably saw that. That’s why the hat is so successfu
l. The white one, right?
But I went there, everybody wants to buy the hat. Now they like the white one. T
hen two weeks later, I wore the red one. The white one didn’t sell so well. Th
e red one sells. Crazy thing.
But I went to the border and I got to know the people and I saw people, and you 
know it’s rough stuff, it’s rough stuff.
And when I first came in and when I first did my opening statement that I was ru
nning for President, I talked about illegal immigration. I was killed by the pre
ss.
Rush Limbaugh, who I think is a terrific guy, said "Trump has received more inco
ming than any human being I’ve ever seen. Then he goes and has a news conferen
ce and I think he’s going to apologize and he doubles down."
I got credit. I got credit.
No, they thought I was going to apologize. And I don’t mind apologizing but I 
have to make a mistake to apologize and I was right. No, I was right.
So for two weeks, as Rush said, I took incoming…In fact that was my first two 
weeks. I said "Is it going to be like this for the next year and a half?" I don
t know if I can make it. It was brutal.
Now, many of those people that talked that way, many of those people, they’ve 
apologized to me. Everybody says I’m right. And only because of me is everybod
y talking about illegal immigration. They wouldn’t even be talking about it. T
hey wouldn’t even be talking about it.


And we’re going to build a wall and we’re going to get, you know, the gang m
embers in Baltimore and in Chicago and these are some tough dudes. They’re goi
ng to be out so fast.
One of the first thing I’m going to do is get rid of those gang members. We’
re going to be – you know, you look at what’s going on with Baltimore, you l
ook at what’s going on in Chicago and Ferguson and St. Louis the other night. 
We are going to get rid of those gang members so fast your head will spin.
You know, we can be very tough. I just met your cops outside. Those police are t
ough cookies. Those guys – we need law and order. We need law and order.
I mean, they allowed – in one night, that first night in Baltimore – they al
lowed that city to be destroyed. And they set it back 35 years. One night. Becau
se the police were not allowed to protect people. They weren’t allowed to prot
ect people.
We have incredible law enforcement in this country and we have to be – the hea
d of the police in Chicago is a person I know. Originally from New York. He’s 
a phenomenal guy. He can stop things if they’re allowed to stop them. He can s
top it. Believe me.
We have some incredible people. But we have to be tough. We have to be smart.
You know, I know you’re going to have some bad apples. You’re going to have 
problems. I see some of the things. You did too and it’s disgusting and it’s
 horrible. But that’s such a tiny percentage.
The problem is the good work doesn’t get shown on television. All of the good 
work, which is 99.9%.
I mean, the good work with the police. It’s 99.9%. That one little thing.
And it’s horrible. I agree. I hated some of the things. I don’t have to go i
nto them. But you know the same ones because you were sick when you looked at so
me of them just like I was.
But we need law and order. We need our police. They’re great people. They do a
 phenomenal job. They’re right now afraid of doing anything. They’re afraid.
I mean, I know cities. I won’t mention names but I know cities where police ar
e afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have 
their pension; they don’t want to be thrown off the police force.
And then you wonder why there’s crimes in our cities.
So we need a whole new mindset. We have to build up our military. We have to mak
e our military so strong. We have to make our military so powerful and so strong
 that we never have to use it. We never have to use it.
We also have to focus on what we have – look, Ukraine. I want Ukraine to be he
althy, vibrant and good. But Ukraine is near Germany and all of these European c
ountries. We’re now sending F-22s. That’s the newest fighters. The best in t
he world. We’re sending fighters every – Where’s Germany? Where are all th
ese European countries? It affects them. It affects them. And we want to stand a
longside of them. I agree.
But why are we leading the fight? Putin hates us. He hates Obama. He doesn’t h
ate us. I think he’d like me. I’d get along great with him I think if you wa
nt to know the truth. No, he has no respect for our President and our President 
doesn’t like him in all fairness. They don’t have good chemistry to put it m
ildly, would you say. But I’d get along with these people.
Think of it. Every country is ripping us off. Even Russia is ripping us off beca
use in the Iran deal, which is going to go down as one of the worst deals ever, 
Russia is a big beneficiary because they’re going to sell Iran missiles with t
he money we give to Iran. Think of that.
So one of the biggest beneficiaries is Russia. Okay?
But think of it. So, Ukraine – let’s take a few of these things and then I
m getting the hell out of here; I’m going back to New York. Do you mind? Mayb
e I’ll go to the Grand Ole Opry tonight. Can I do that?
I’d actually rather – I love – by the way, this is not a politician speaki
ng. Believe me. I hope. I love country music. I love it. Hey, Trace Adkins – r
ight? And who else won on The Apprentice? Who else? John Rich. My kids love thos
e two guys. John Rich. And who else? Who did really well? Clint Black. Right? Cl
int Black. He did great. And my Trace – how good is Trace, okay?
You know, Trace came onto The Apprentice. And I said, "Who the hell is he? Who i
s he?" I didn’t know who Trace was. I’d never heard of him. And he wasn’t 
a big name. And he came on – just to show you how important this show is and h
is record or album or whatever you call it now…it went to number one. And then
 he came to me the next year…but Trace came to me and he goes – you know, at
 certain awards show, I won’t mention the name – but he said "Last year, I c
ouldn’t get into the show and this year I’m hosting it, Mr. Trump, all becau
se of you."
Nice, right? I know, nice.
But those three guys, they’re great and they’re just fantastic people.
But we’ve got to make our country so strong. We have to make our country rich 
again.
A person came up and said, "Oh, that’s not nice." What’s not nice? They said
 rich, you know, to say we’re going to make our country rich.


We can’t make our country great if we’re going to be poor. We’re a debtor 
nation. We owe $19 trillion.
China – think of this – China we owe $1.4 trillion to. So they come in, they
 take our jobs, they take our money, they take our base, they take our manufactu
ring and we owe them $1.4 trillion. How do you do that? That’s like a magic ac
t. Right? It’s true.
Japan sells us cars by the millions. They make a fortune. They come in, they sel
l us cars by the millions. And we owe them the exact same amount. We owe them $1
.4 trillion. How come if they’re selling us cars we owe them money? Think of i
t. Put on your business. See? I have a natural instinct for this stuff. Right? Y
ou know? Right?
If we buy all these cars, why do we owe them money? But we owe them because they
 take all our money that they make and they buy our bonds. And we’re paying in
terests on them and we owe them money.
So, it’ll change. It can change. It’s not even going to be hard.
People don’t realize. See, Obama never read the Art of the Deal. People don’
t realize.
Oh, and somebody said Sharon. It was Sharon. Where’s Sharon? She gave me such 
a hard time. Where’s Sharon? Where the hell is she? You could have both Sharon
s stand up actually. Where are they? Both of them. Sharon is great. Oh, did they
 go after her…She took a lot of incoming. Sharon, did you take a lot of incomi
ng? I think so. Right? Thank you, darling.
So, we are going to do something that if I get elected – and again they said I
’ll never run and now…One guy said – John McLaughlin – you ever watch th
e McLaughlin Report? I like him.
And one of the people on the little group said Donald Trump is a great businessm
an but he’ll never make it as a President. He’ll never get elected. He’ll 
never make it. And John McLaughlin – this crusty guy who I like; I don’t kno
w him. I never met him, I don’t think. But I like. He’s sitting there and he
 goes – and he got angry – he goes "Why wouldn’t he make it? You tell me w
hy. He’s been a tremendous success in everything he’s done. I go all over th
e world. I see him name. I see his name all over. He’s a great success."
And he said – I think this is the word – "He’s a man of great achievement.
 Why wouldn’t he make it?"
And I thought it was so nice and the other guy just sort of shut up. You know, b
ecause you need somebody of great achievement.
You need – I’ve produced tens of thousands of jobs over the year. I don’t 
have to worry about Obamacare. I take such good care of my employees. I have tho
usands of employees. I take good care of them. We have great plans. My employees
 are lucky. They hit the lotto, okay? But I take great care – education and he
alth care – and my people are very happy.
But I’ve done this for a long time, and I’ve seen ups and downs. I’ve seen
 market crashes. I’ve seen friends of mine go bankrupt. You’ve never seen 
 I’ve never gone bankrupt. By the way, I’ve used the laws to my advantage a
nd companies.
I buy a company. I throw it into a chapter. I negotiate with banks. I kill. You 
know. And then they say "Trump goes bankrupt." These people – they don’t hav
e any –


Now, when other people do that, when a Carl does it – I mean, they do it all t
he time. They use it all the time. It’s called using your head. It’s called 
using the laws.
Actually I did a good job didn’t I at the debate when Chris Matthews so angril
y said – I do what every other great businessman does.
I buy a company – you know, it’s one company was sort of interesting. A frie
nd of mine had it. Good guy. And the banks were just killing him. They were mean
. And banks can be mean, right?
You’ve got to teach them how to behave, right?
So this guy was just getting beaten. And I did him a favor and I called up the b
anks. And I said "Do me this, do this, do this, do that." They said, "We won’t
 do that. No, we won’t do that."
I said, "You’re making a mistake." Anyways, it’s sort of a little bit compli
cated…I bought it. Immediately, I called them back and said, "Don’t do this.
" I threw it into a chapter. And they come out with the story "Trump files bankr
uptcy". Can you believe it? I negotiated it to hell. What I did to that bank –
 ayeyeye.
They see me walking down the street and they go "Hey, hey, hey." But then I’m 
good at that stuff, you know? I’m really good at that stuff.
But you have to use the laws to your advantage. No, no, you have to use it to yo
ur advantage.
Atlantic City. You know, you look at Atlantic City. Caesar’s went bankrupt. Wh
oever heard of Caesar’s? Caesar’s filed Chapter 11. Nobody cares. Everybody 
in Atlantic City. I had the good sense seven years ago and actually the financia
l media gives me great credit because I have a vision for things.
I said, "Don’t go into Iraq" even though I’m a very militaristic person. I s
aid "Don’t go into Iraq" and they shouldn’t have because I said you’re goi
ng to destabilize the Middle East. So what did we get – $2 trillion. Thousands
 of deaths. Thousands. Like 5,000. Wounded warriors who I love all over the plac
e.
We can’t even go there. Iran is taking over Iraq. With the money that we’re 
giving them, they’re going to take off and they’re going to get the oil, the
y’re going to get everything. The oil they don’t get ISIS is getting. What d
o we get? Nothing. We get nothing. We got far less than nothing.
So I had vision in 2004 – Reuters – actually it was before that but they wro
te a story. Trump says don’t do Iraq.
Now, I’m much more militaristic than Bush, even the brother. But you got to kn
ow where to use it and when. You got to use.
So with Atlantic City, seven years ago, I got out. That’s called vision. I sho
uld get credit for vision.
And again, this isn’t bragging. Normally, I wouldn’t say this but I need you
r fricking votes. Do you understand that? Do you understand that?
I mean, normally I wouldn’t. So I got great credit. I got out.
But most of the places in Atlantic City are either in trouble or they’re bankr
upt. They went bankrupt.
But I made a lot of money in Atlantic City. I had a great time in Atlantic City 
but they asked me a nasty question, I gave a great answer. I thought. So I think
 I solved it.
Listen, we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if I win.
We are going to have victories again. We are going to win.
In fact, last night in front of the audience and I’ve never said this before. 
Last night in front of the audience I said we’re going to have so many victori
es.
And then I said we’re going to win here. We’re going to win on trade.
We’re going to win militarily in terms of not having wars but just having such
 great strength that nobody’s going to play with us. Nobody’s going to mess 
with us. Okay? Nobody.
And we’re going to have victories. So many victories that are going to be comi
ng out…In fact, you might get tired of victories. You may not want anymore…A
nd everyone stood up and said "No, no, no, we want to keep winning."
If I win, we will have victories all over. We will win on trade. We will win on 
health care. We will win on everything.
I will protect your Social Security without cuts. I will protect your Medicare a
nd your Medicaid. We are going to have something that’s so special.
And you know, my whole fame is and I’ll say it once. We will make America trul
y great again.
And thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much!


Thank you, everybody. Great honor. Great honor, thank you. This is a wonderful d
ay. On a Saturday morning yet. Isn't that nice? Thank you, all. And we're going 
to have an incredible convention. It's really going well. We're going to have an
 incredible convention. And we're going to get things solved, and we're going to
 do lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.
So I'm here today to introduce the man who will be my partner in this campaign, 
and the White House, to fix our rigged system — we are in a rigged, rigged sys
tem — and to make America safe again and to make America great again.
I want to also address the Islamic terror attack in France. We've witnessed horr
or beyond belief, no matter where you look. And now it's happening more and more
. And it's never going to stop.
We need new leadership. We need new thinking. We need strength. We need in our c
ountry law and order. And if I'm elected president, that will happen.
I want to express our unyielding support for the people of France, and we mourn 
their loss as a nation.
And as far as Turkey is concerned, so many friends in Turkey, great people, amaz
ing people. We wish them well. It looks like they're resolving the difficulty, b
ut we wish them well. A lot — a lot of anguish last night, but hopefully it'll
 all work out.
Now, as, hopefully, the next president of the United States, I want to refer bac
k to what's happened over the years. The Middle East today is more unstable than
 ever before. Never been like this. Out of control. After four years of Clinton,
 who really led the way and led Obama down a horrible path, because I don't even
 think he could have made these decisions so badly, she led him right down a hor
rible path. He didn't know what he was doing.
Iraq, Syria, all into chaos. And Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons. And on to
p of that, we gave them back $150 billion, and we didn't get our hostages until 
the end. Now we're seeing unrest in Turkey, a further demonstration of the failu
res of Obama-Clinton. You just have to look, every single thing they touched has
 turned to horrible, horrible, death-defying problems.
We also need to bring back in this country — because we see what happened — 
our industry, our manufacturing, our jobs. They've been taken away, like we're b
abies. Taken away. And we're going to bring them back.
I found the leader who will help us deliver a safe society and a prosperous — 
really prosperous society for all Americans. Indiana Governor Mike Pence was my 
first choice. I've admired the work he's done, especially in the state of Indian
a. And I'm going to go over some of those accomplishments in just a minute.
But I also admire the fact that he fights for the people, and he's going to figh
t for you. He is a solid, solid person.
Governor Pence served Indiana with distinction in Congress. He rose to leadershi
p and served as the chairman of the entire House Republican Conference. Number o
ne. He's really got the skills of a highly talented executive, leading the state
 of Indiana to jobs, growth, and opportunity, in spite of the relentless obstacl
es put in his way and every state's way by the Obama administration. It's horrib
le out there. High taxes and regulations. And it's out of control.
Mike Pence is a man of honor, character, and honesty. We know that. Hillary Clin
ton is the embodiment of corruption. She's a corrupt person. What she's done wit
h her e-mails, what she's done with so many things, and I see the ads up all the
 time, the ads. She's totally bought and paid for by Wall Street, the special in
terests, the lobbyists, 100 percent. She's crooked Hillary.
And I think that, while she got away with murder, in fact, I think it might be h
er greatest accomplishment, escaping the recent scandal, and her lies, and the l
oss of 33,000 e-mails — but it wasn't a loss, she discarded — that in itself
 is a major crime. Other people have been paying tremendous prices for what they
've done, which is peanuts compared to what happened with Hillary Clinton.
Thirty-three thousand e-mails are missing, and that's OK? Didn't give them to th
e FBI? Didn't give them to the attorney general, and that's OK? Wipes her server
 clean, that's OK? These are crimes. These are crimes. And how she got away with
 it, I think I understand it, but I think a lot of people don't.
But I do believe, while she didn't pay the price she should have paid, she's goi
ng to pay that price when November 8th rolls around. She's going to pay it at th
e polls. I believe that.
On top of everything else, Hillary made $21.6 million giving speeches to special
 interests in a short period of time. She's totally owned by Wall Street. We bel
ieve in Americanism; she believes in globalism. And it's not that she believes i
n it. The people that give her all of this money believe in it. And she'll belie
ve in whatever they want her to believe. Believe me. That's it.
What a difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and Mike Pence.
Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy: Radical Islam. R
adical Islamic terrorism. You saw it the other day with the truck screaming out 
the window. You heard what he was screaming out the window. You saw it in San Be
rnardino. You saw it at the World Trade Center. You saw it in Orlando. How horri
ble was that? You saw it in Paris. You see it all over.
And Hillary is a weak person. We are the law and order candidates, and we're the
 law and order party. We're going to change things around. There's going to be r
espect again for law and order.
Hillary Clinton's foreign policy helped launch ISIS. You know, she's talking —
 I see the ads she puts on. If I make one statement, which is fine, she'll take 
that statement and put on a totally dishonest ad, because she's got a lot of mon
ey because it's given to her by the lobbyists and by the special interests. Got 
a lot of money.
But I see the ads on foreign policy. She's talking about Donald Trump doesn't ha
ve foreign policy experience. Of course not. I've been a very, very, very succes
sful businessperson. I mean — but — but if you look at my calls, I said, don
't go into Iraq. Nobody cared, because I was a businessperson. I was a civilian.
 Take the oil. Many, many calls I've made.
You take a look. I said that in Scotland and in the U.K., that was going to happ
en. I was the one that predicted it. And everybody said, he's wrong, he's wrong.
 President Obama said, if it happens, they're going to get to the back of the li
ne, which probably is one of the reasons they lost, because I consider it a win.
 I think it was a win for them, actually, because they don't want to be told wha
t to do. And they don't want to be told that when people pour into the country, 
they have to take them even if they're not qualified, even if they don't have pa
perwork, even if they have no idea where they come from.
And I said that Brexit's going to happen. I said that they are going to break aw
ay. And everybody laughed at me. And the odds were 20 percent. And then when it 
happened, she took an ad saying, oh, Donald Trump said this or that, but I'm the
 one that said it was going to happen. And some of the more fair reporters — a
bout 30 percent of them — said he was right. I appreciate that. Seventy percen
t didn't, so that's OK.
So Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy. So important.
 Now, I think if you look at one of the big reasons that I chose Mike — and on
e of the reasons is party unity, I have to be honest. So many people have said p
arty unity. Because I'm an outsider. I want to be an outsider. I think it's one 
of the reasons I won in landslides. I won in landslides. This wasn't close. This
 wasn't close.
Now, this wasn't close. This was — in the history of the Republican Party, his
tory, with 17 people running, you have to understand, other people ran against o
ne, two, and three. There were 17. We got — I say we, because I'm the messenge
r, I'm a messenger — I'm doing a good job, but I'm a messenger — we got almo
st 14 million votes. That's more than any other person in the history of the Rep
ublican Party in the primary system running for president.
Think of it. That's more than Ronald Reagan, who we love. That's more than Richa
rd Nixon. It's more than Dwight D. Eisenhower. You know, he won the Second World
 War, in all fairness. Pretty good. It's more than the Bushes.
But I mean by a lot. I don't mean by a little. But that's with 17 people. People
 don't over-say that. That means our message is unbelievable. And I want to than
k all of the loyal people — because I have such loyal, unbelievable people, an
d they displayed that just yesterday in Cleveland, where it's going to be so ama
zing.
But they displayed it. It was on display, where we had this group of people, who
 — many of whom I've known, and I won't say, because for party unity, I'll say
 they're wonderful people, OK? Never Trump, they said, never Trump, never Trump.
 Oh, we're going to win. They got crushed. And they got crushed immediately, bec
ause people want what we're saying to happen.
They're tired of a country that has horrible trade deals, that has no borders, t
hat has taxes that are through the roof, highest taxed nation just about in the 
world, that has regulations that don't allow you to start a business and destroy
 your business if you do start — and, by the way, speaking of destroying busin
esses, we're going to take care of the miners and we're going to take care of th
e steelworkers. We're going to put them back to work.
So they're very tired of it. But I want to thank all of those people that — de
legates that were on the different committees, because, boy, was that something.
 Did we show them something. And unfortunately, the vote was very late. But esse
ntially, we had 112- 12. This was the vote that was going to put it onto the flo
or and we're going to have a big fight. We're not going to have a fight. People 
agree with what we've — they want the wall. They want the borders. They want t
hese things to happen.
And what we're doing...
And what we're doing that I'm so proud of, so proud — and nobody else would ev
en think about doing it — I fought very hard for it. We'll call it the Johnson
 amendment, where he took away from the evangelicals — and I want to thank the
 evangelicals, because without the evangelicals, I could not have won this nomin
ation. The evangelicals have been unbelievable. I dominated with the evangelical
s. A lot of people were surprised. They say he's not perfect. But you know what?
 They know I'm going to get the job done, and they're really smart.
And I said — and I said for the evangelicals, that we're going to do something
 that nobody's even tried to do. You have the Johnson amendment passed by Lyndon
 Johnson and his group. And he was a powerful president. He knew how to get thin
gs done. He got bogged down in a war that was a disaster and it destroyed him. B
ut he was a powerful president.
And we call it the Johnson amendment, where you are just absolutely shunned if y
ou're evangelical, if you want to talk religion, you lose your tax-exempt status
. We put into the platform, we're going to get rid of that horrible Johnson amen
dment. And we're going to let evangelicals, we're going to let Christians and Je
ws and people of religion talk without being afraid to talk.
I saw this. I had so many great leaders so many times up to my office, the top 
 the absolute top evangelical leaders, Christian leaders, Jewish leaders, beli
eve it or not, some Muslim leaders — people are going to be surprised to hear 
that — I had the top leaders up to my office, and I said, why is it that you'r
e so powerful as an individual, and yet when you get out there, you're sort of t
imid?
And they didn't know how to answer the question. And it took two, three meetings
 before I figured it out. One great, great gentleman that everybody knows, but w
hose name I will not reveal, said, Mr. Trump, we live in fear in our churches an
d our synagogues. We live in fear that we're going to lose our tax-exempt status
 if we say anything that's even slightly political.
And I looked out the window. I was in Trump Tower, and I pointed to people walki
ng down the street. I said, well, they have the right to speak, but you don't. T
hat means they're more powerful than you are. We have to do something about it. 
How did it start? How did it start?
And they said, it started because of Lyndon Johnson. And he actually had a probl
em in Texas with a certain religious leader. And he did this, and he got it done
. And we're going to undo it, so that religious leaders in this country, and tho
se unbelievable people, and not because they backed me in such large numbers, bu
t so that religion can again have a voice, because religion's voice has been tak
en away. And we're going to change that. OK? All right.
Back to Mike Pence. So one of the primary reasons I chose Mike was I looked at I
ndiana, and I won Indiana big. Remember, Indiana was going to be the firewall. T
hat's where Trump was going to — they agreed I'd win New York, I'd win Pennsyl
vania, I'd win all these places. But Indiana was going to be the firewall.
So I got to study Indiana, and I got to study New York and a lot of other places
, and I saw how NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, has drained our manufacturing job
s, just drained us like we've never been drained before. NAFTA, again, signed by
 Bill Clinton. NAFTA is the worst economic deal in the history of our country. M
anufacturing down in some states 55 percent, 60 percent. It's a horror show, mov
ing to Mexico, moving to other places.
I have a friend who's a great builder. What he builds is plants. That's all he d
oes, is build plants. He doesn't build buildings. He doesn't — he builds plant
s. It's the biggest in the world, from what I hear.
I said, how's business? I was with him the other day. How's business? He goes un
believable. I said, really, wow, I'm surprised. Why is it unbelievable? Because 
I think of him as building in this country. He says, Donald, what we're doing in
 Mexico, you won't believe. I said, what do you mean? He said, we're building pl
ants in Mexico the likes of which we've never seen.
I said, what about this country? Not much. Not much. That's the expression. He s
aid exactly that. Not much. I said, but Mexico? He said, you've never seen anyth
ing like it. It's incredible.
Folks, that's going to stop. We're going to go reverse it. We're going to bring 
our jobs back to this country. We can't be the stupid people anymore. OK?
And he was better than a pollster. He's better than a consultant. I would say, h
ow are we doing? And you get a big report that costs you millions of dollars. Do
esn't cost me millions. Me, I give them $10,000, OK?
It costs other people millions. It costs other campaigns millions to get a repor
t. Every time they get a report, it's millions. But I'll tell you what, a guy li
ke this is better than anybody you can hire to do a report. And he said it. He d
idn't say it from the standpoint of he's upset about it. Just fact. How are we d
oing? Unbelievable in Mexico. In fact, he actually said, I've never, ever seen a
nything like it.
And if you look, Ford is building massive plants there instead of Michigan. We w
ant them to build them in Michigan. They're going to build them in Michigan. And
 you know that I know how to do that. So easy. So easy.
But they're not going to do and they're not going to take advantage of us withou
t retribution. There are consequences when you fire thousands of people and move
 to another country and then think you're going to you're your product and sell 
it in here. There are consequences. And those consequences are going to keep com
panies in our country. It's very simple. And everybody here knows what the conse
quences are, but I won't say that because I'm much more interested right now in 
Mike.
Indiana's unemployment rate — and this is the primary reason I wanted Mike, ot
her than he looks very good, other than he's got an incredible family, incredibl
e wife and family — Karen is amazing.
Incredible family. Highly respected. Expected to go for another four years. He w
ould have won, I think, very easily in Indiana. Indiana, their unemployment rate
 has fallen, when he was there, when he started, 8.4 percent when he was governo
r, when he took over, to less than 5 percent in May of 2016. Since January 2013,
 Indiana's labor force has increased by more than 186,000 jobs. You have to unde
rstand, I've gone around to all these states. I've gone to all of them. And ever
y time, I have statisticians. I say give me the stats on a state.
And it's always bad, down, down, down. Down 40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent i
n some cases. Here's somebody where it's gone up. Private sector job growth is u
p by more than 147,000 jobs since 2013. That's like very unusual.
Governor Pence balanced the budget. Can you imagine a balanced budget? Our budge
t's so out of whack in this country, we don't know what we're doing. We're going
 to owe very soon $21 trillion. He balanced the budget. They don't know what tha
t means. Governor Pence balanced the budget, produced a surplus, and maintains a
 $2 billion reserve fund in the state of Indiana.
It's also rated AAA, their bonds are rated AAA. Very few states have that. AAA. 
The best. That's as good as you can get, whether you're a company, a state, AAA.
Indiana was recently recognized by Chief Executive Magazine as the number-one st
ate in the Midwest for business. Number one. And it's not even close. There are 
approximately 34,000 fewer Hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than there wer
e when Mike Pence took office. So you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer people from Ind
iana.
And besides that, Bobby Knight, my friend, who really did help me. I mean, if yo
u want a reference, Bobby Knight in Indiana, we love Bobby Knight. But he agrees
 with everything I'm saying. He loves the governor.
Indiana has the second-lowest unemployment rate in the nation, for veterans, whe
re nobody's fighting for the veterans like I'm fighting for the veterans, the ve
terans have been left behind.
If you remember a few months ago, Hillary Clinton said really — they're doing 
much better, the V.A. is much better. They're doing a much better job than peopl
e give it credit for. People are dying on line waiting for five, six days for do
ctors. People are dying on — they can't even see a doctor. It's a scandal.
Take a look at what's happening with the V.A. in Arizona. Take a look at what's 
happening with — you know, just the Veterans Administration hospitals. It's a 
scandal. It's corrupt. It's incompetent. It's a scandal. And Hillary Clinton tho
ught it was just fine. And, boy, am I going to win big with the veterans. I mean
, we know that for a fact.
So it's now 2.4 percent for veterans. In 2013, when Mike Pence took office, the 
rate for veterans was 6.7 percent. It was 31st in the nation, one of the bad one
s, and now it's almost the best. Got them jobs. Got them jobs.
Indianapolis is ranked second in top 10 metro areas for young college graduates.
 That's a great thing. They're going to stay there. That's a great thing. And Mi
ke worked hard on that. He was telling me, that was not easy.
Under Governor Pence's leadership, Indiana enacted the largest K- 12 education f
unding increase in the state's history. So you're balancing budgets, and yet you
're giving more money to education. Isn't that a great thing?
Indiana has just about the largest school choice program in America. School choi
ce is where it's at, folks. You want to get your schools better, you better get 
rid of Common Core fast.
Governor Pence enacted the largest income tax cut in the state's history. Think 
of that. We're cutting taxes and balancing budgets. And along with corporate tax
 reform, just about number one in the country. CNBC ranked Indiana first in the 
nation for its infrastructure.
So with all of these cuts and all of these balancing budgets, we're spending mor
e money on education, and the infrastructure is kept up. That had so much — lo
ok, as a builder, nobody in the history of this country has ever known so much a
bout infrastructure as Donald Trump. I build infrastructure. Do I know how to bu
ild a wall? Do I know how to build infrastructure?
You know, it's very interesting. We're building — we're building — I won the
 — which is pretty amazing with the Obama administration, but I won the right 
to have the old post office building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the Whit
e House, and it's an amazing — probably the best location, one of the most sou
ght after projects in the history of the GSA, General Services. And I really lik
e what's happened.
We're going to have an opening very soon. Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantasti
c job on it.
But I thought the other day, I was going over the numbers, we're under budget an
d about a year — actually more than a year — we're a year ahead of schedule,
 and we're under budget substantially. And the quality of the work is even bette
r than we originally were going to do.
And when I explained to a government representative that we're under budget and 
ahead of schedule, they almost fell off, because they've never heard those words
 before. They've never heard them.
So when I see what happened to Indiana, which was having tremendous problems, wh
en I see what happened to Indiana under Mike's work — also his predecessor did
 a great job, by the way, great job, who's now at Duke — who's now at Purdue 
 when I see what happened with respect to the numbers, the state, and everythi
ng else, that, to me, was probably the single most important point, because it's
 something that hasn't happened — almost has not happened in this whole countr
y.
The turnaround and the strength of Indiana has been incredible, and I learned th
at when I campaigned there. And I learned that when I won that state in a landsl
ide. And I learned that when Governor Pence, under tremendous pressure from esta
blishment people, endorsed somebody else, but it was more of an endorsement for 
me, if you remember. He talked about Trump, then he talked about Ted — who's a
 good guy, by the way, who's going to be speaking at the convention, Ted Cruz, g
ood guy — but he talked about Trump, Ted, then he went back to Trump. I said, 
who did he endorse?
So even though he was under pressure, because I'm so, you know, outside of the e
stablishment, it was the single greatest non- endorsement I've ever had in my li
fe, OK? I will tell you.
So with that, I would like to introduce a man who I truly believe will be outsta
nding in every way and will be the next vice president of the United States, Gov
ernor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.








7/12/2016
WOW. WOW! [ CHEERING ] WHOA! THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THA
NK YOU, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. ALL RIGHT. LET'S TURN THAT MUSIC DOWN. WE WANT TO 
GET TO BUSINESS, RIGHT? GET TO BUSINESS. HOW IS YOUR GOVERNOR DOING, BY THE WAY?
 GOOD? I THINK SO. I THINK SO. I JUST WANT TO THANK ALL OF THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA
. YOU KNOW, WE HAD A GREAT VICTORY HERE NOT SO LONG AGO. AND INDIANA WAS THE STA
TE THAT PUT ME OVER THE TOP. THANK YOU, FOLKS. THANK YOU. [ CHEERING ] WELL, WE 
HAVE A LOT OF THINGS TO DISCUSS, BUT WE HAD SOME VERY BAD NEWS A FEW DAYS AGO, A
ND YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED. A LOT OF BAD THINGS ARE HAPPENING. AND I WAS GOING TO 
GO THROUGH A WHOLE LITANY OF THAT, BUT WE DON'T WANT TO. WE WANT TO BE UPBEAT. W
E WANT TO BE POSITIVE. WE WANT TO BE STRONG. AND WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONG. WE'RE
 GOING TO BE STRONGER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BE GREATER THAN EVER BEFO
RE. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING BRING OUR MILITARY BACK. IT'
S BEING DEPLETED SO BADLY. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS, WHICH WE HA
VE TO TAKE CARE OF. WE'RE GOING TO GET RID OF OBAMACARE, WHICH IS A DISASTER. [ 
CHEERING ] AND REPLACE IT WITH SOMETHING TERRIFIC. WE END COMMON CORE. WE BRING 
OUR EDUCATION BACK TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES LIKE THIS LOCAL COMMUNITY WHERE THE 
PEOPLE LOVE THEIR CHILDREN AND THEY WANT TO SEE THEIR CHILDREN BE WELL EDUCATED.
 IT'S SO IMPORTANT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. WE'RE GOING TO SAV
E OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. AND IT'S UNDER SIEGE. YOU KNOW, I WROTE A FEW WORDS TODA
Y. AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE GO THROUGH IT AS A GROUP. IT'S BEEN A SPEC
IAL PLACE AND YOU'RE SPECIAL PEOPLE. AND I KNOW SO MANY PEOPLE TONIGHT IN THE AU
DIENCE. AND YOU'RE ALL OVER. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS UP THERE, FOLKS. LOOK AT 
ALL THOSE CAMERAS. THEY DON'T STOP. THEY DON'T STOP. BUT I JUST WANTED TO SAY I 
WROTE THIS QUICKLY, BUT IT MEANS IT CAME RIGHT FROM THE HEART. AND I HAVE TO SAY
 THAT OUR WHOLE NATION GRIEVES AND MOURNS FOR THE LOSS OF FIVE HEROS IN DALLAS, 
LAW ENFORCEMENT. THESE WERE GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE. GREAT PEOPLE. [ APPLAUSE ] WE P
RAY FOR THEIR FAMILIES. WE PRAY FOR THEIR LOVED ONES. WE PRAY FOR ALL THE WOUNDE
D SURVIVORS. WE PRAY FOR OUR COUNTRY. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. THE POLICE ARE NOT JUST
 PART OF OUR SOCIETY. OUR POLICE ARE THE BEST OF OUR SOCIETY. REMEMBER THAT. WE 
HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT. THEY REPRESENT OUR HIGHEST IDEALS, OUR GREATEST VALUES, A
ND OUR MOST NOBLE CHARACTERISTICS. WHEN OUR POLICE ARE ATTACKED, OUR ENTIRE NATI
ON IS ATTACKED. REMEMBER THAT. REMEMBER THAT. SO THE MESSAGE MUST BE DELIVERED C
LEARLY FOR ALL TO HEAR, THE HOSTILITY AGAINST OUR POLICE HAS TO END, AND IT HAS 
TO END RIGHT NOW. AND WE HAVE TO SAY TOGETHER, AND WE HAVE TO BE STRONG. WE HAVE
 TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYONE. THE TWO PEOPLE THAT WERE KILLED IN LOUISIANA AND MINN
ESOTA, IT WAS TOUGH. IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH FOR EVERYBODY HERE IT WAS TOUGH TO WA
TCH. WE HAVE TO FIGURE IT OUT. WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS GOING ON. WAS IT TR
AINING? WAS IT SOMETHING ELSE? IT COULD HAVE BEEN SOMETHING ELSE. WE HAVE TO TAK
E CARE OF EVERYBODY. REMEMBER THAT. BUT WE HAVE TO ALSO -- WE HAVE TO GET TO THE
 BOTTOM OF THINGS. WE HAVE TO. BUT WE CAN NEVER, EVER FORGET THE HUNDREDS OF THO
USANDS OF GREAT DEALS AND GREAT THINGS THAT OUR POLICE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY DO, 
AND NOBODY RECOGNIZES THEM FOR WHAT THEY DO. AND WHEN THERE IS A PROBLEM, AS BAD
 AS THESE TWO SITUATIONS WERE, AND I PERSONALLY THINK THEY WERE, THEY WERE BAD. 
I HATED, I HATED WATCHING IT. BUT AS BAD AS THEY WERE, THEY GET BROADCAST ALL OV
ER THE WORLD FOR DAYS AND DAYS, AND ALL OF THE GOOD THINGS WHICH ARE MAGNIFIED T
HOUSANDS OF TIMES, NOBODY TALKS ABOUT. SO WE HAVE TO REMEMBER, WE HAVE TO CHERIS
H AND TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE. IF WE DON'T, IF WE DON'T, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY
 ANYMORE. WE HAVE A COUNTRY IN CHAOS. AND REMEMBER THIS. AND I SAY IT ONCE, AND 
I SAY IT WITH LOVE, AND I SAY IT WITH COMPASSION. BECAUSE I HAVE LOVE FOR OUR CO
UNTRY, AND I HAVE GREAT COMPASSION FOR OUR PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY. BUT I AM THE L
AW AND ORDER CANDIDATE. WE NEED LAW AND ORDER, AND WE NEED STRENGTH IN THIS COUN
TRY. WE DON'T HAVE STRENGTH IN OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE CROOKED HILLARY CLINTON, AS 
CROOKED AS YOU GET. I MEAN, YOU SAW THAT WITH THE E-MAILS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM,
 FOLKS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. JUST REMEMBER IT. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. IT'S RIGGE
D IN SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS. WE'RE GOING TO STRAIGHTEN IT OUT. YOU CAN'T EVEN WA
TCH WHAT HAPPENS. WE HAD A YOUNG MAN WHO DID NOTHING BY COMPARISON TO WHAT SHE D
ID, AND HE WARNED HIS FRIENDS OF A PROBLEM THAT WAS COMING MILITARILY. AND THEY 
CAME DOWN ON HIM WITH A VENGEANCE. AND THEY LET HER GO. 33,000 MISSING E-MAILS. 
THEY LET HER GO. LIES ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THEY LET HER GO. THINK OF IT. IT'S
 A DISGRACE. SO WE'RE GOING TO GET ON TO OTHER SUBJECTS. BUT I HAVE TO SAY LAW E
NFORCEMENT HAS TO REMAIN WITH US. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE AND OUR LAW
 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS. WE'RE GOING TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO DO IT. 
WE'RE GOING REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A FABULOUS JOB. WE'RE GOING TO REMEMBER THAT T
HEY DO A GREAT JOB. AND EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE, PROBLEMS WILL HAPPEN. AND WE'RE G
OING TAKE CARE OF THOSE PROBLEMS. AND THEY CAN BE BAD PROBLEMS. BUT WE ARE GOING
 TO TREAT OUR POLICE WITH RESPECT. REMEMBER THAT. OKAY? NOW I'M LOOKING AT DIFFE
RENT RATES AND DIFFERENT CRIMES. AND YOU SEE THE CRIME RATE IN LARGE PORTIONS OF
 OUR COUNTRY IS GOING WAY UP. YOU LOOK AT CERTAIN INNER CITIES, AND LOOK AT CHIC
AGO. LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON. SINCE PRESIDENT OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT, ALMOST 5,
000 KILLINGS IN CHICAGO. AND NOBODY TALKS ABOUT IT. WELL, WE'RE GOING TO START T
ALKING ABOUT IT. BECAUSE WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS A SAFE COUNTRY. AND, YOU KNOW, I W
OULD SAY TWO WEEKS AGO, A MONTH AGO, I WOULDN'T BE SAYING THESE WORDS. I WAS TAL
KING ABOUT THE BORDER. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE WALL. AND WE WILL BUILD THE WALL.
 THAT I CAN TELL YOU. I CAN TELL YOU. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD IT. DON'T WORRY ABOUT
 IT. ARE YOU READY? WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
 I DON'T HEAR YOU. WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
AND THEY WILL. VERY MUCH. THEY WILL. 100%. AND YOU KNOW WHAT? THEY'LL BE HAPPY T
O PAY FOR THE WALL. WE HAVE A TRADE DEFICIT WITH MEXICO THAT YOU WOULDN'T BELIEV
E. BILLIONS AND BILLIONS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS A YEAR. WE'RE LOSING ON THE BOR
DER. WE'RE LOSING ON TRADE. AND WHEN I WAS IN THE DEBATES AND I MENTIONED THIS, 
PEOPLE WOULD COME UP THAT I WAS DEBATING AGAINST, AND THEY USED TO SAY DONALD, Y
OU'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO BUILD A WALL, ARE YOU? I SAY ABSOLUTELY. THEY SAY BUT 
YOU CAN'T BUILD A WALL. BUT I'M IN THE CONSTRUCTION. YOU KNOW HOW EASY A WALL IS
? A WALL. WE BUILD 95-STORY BUILDINGS WITH BATHROOMS. THAT'S TOUGH CONSTRUCTION,
 NOT A WALL. WALLS DON'T HAVE BATHROOMS. AND BATHROOMS ARE ALWAYS TOUGH. BUT WE'
RE GOING TO HAVE A VERY BIG BEAUTIFUL GATE IN THAT WALL, BIG AND BEAUTIFUL. AND 
THAT GATE IS GOING TO BE OPEN. AND IT'S GOING TO BE WIDE OPEN FOR PEOPLE TO COME
 INTO OUR COUNTRY, BUT THEY'RE GOING TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY LEGALLY. THEY'RE G
OING TO COME IN LEGALLY. AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT LOVE OUR COUNTRY.
 THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT HATE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE P
EOPLE THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY COME FROM. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE TH
AT COME FROM THE MIGRATION THAT DON'T HAVE PAPERWORK, THAT DON'T HAVE PASSPORTS,
 THAT WE HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY'RE FROM. WE HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THEIR MOTIVES ARE
. WE'RE GOING TO SAY NO. SORRY. NO. AND WE'LL HELP. AND IN SYRIA, WE'LL BUILD SA
FE ZONES, AND WE'LL GET OTHER PEOPLE TO PUT UP THE MONEY, BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO
 OWE VERY SOON 20 TRILLION, TRILLION WITH A T. NOBODY EVEN KNOWS WHAT IT MEANS. 
WE'RE GOING TO OWE -- RIGHT NOW, CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS? $20 TRILLION. SOON GOING 
TO $21 TRILLION. SO WE'RE GOING GET THE GULF STATES WHO HAVE SO MUCH MONEY, FOLK
S. SO MUCH MONEY. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET THEM TO PUT UP THE MONEY AND OTHERS. AN
D WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. AND WE'RE GOING HAVE COMPASSION. BUT WE CA
N'T ALLOW THEM TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE ENOUGH PROBLEMS RIGHT NOW. YOU 
SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN ORLANDO. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN SAN BERNARDINO. WE CAN'T 
ALLOW IT TO HAPPEN. SO WE'RE GOING TO BUILD SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF
 PEOPLE. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE OTHER PEOPLE FUND THESE SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TO 
BUILD UP OUR MILITARY. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER BEEN IN IRAQ. BUT ONCE WE WENT INTO 
IRAQ, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER LEFT THE WAY WE LEFT. WE LEFT LIKE FOOLS. WE WENT IN,
 SHOULD HAVE NEVER HAPPENED. I DIDN'T WANT TO GO FROM THE BEGINNING, AND I HAVE 
PROOF FROM THE BEGINNING. I DIDN'T WANT IRAQ. I SAID YOU'RE GOING TO DESTABILIZE
 THE ENTIRE MIDDLE EAST, AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED. BUT THEN WE WERE THER
E. LOSING THOUSANDS OF LIVES, SPENDING TRILLIONS AND TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS. PROBA
BLY IN THE MIDDLE EAST WE'RE UP TO $4 TRILLION. AND WE'RE IN WORSE SHAPE NOW THA
N WE WERE 15 YEARS AGO BEFORE THE WHOLE DEAL STARTED. FAR WORSE. NOT EVEN CLOSE.
 FAR WORSE. FAR WORSE. SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS WE'RE GOING TO START THINKIN
G SMART. WE'RE GOING TO BE SMART AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT MILITARY, AND 
BY THE WAY, I SAID FOR YEARS WE'VE GOT TO KEEP THE OIL. I SAID KEEP THE OIL. YOU
 LEAVE, YOU KEEP THE OIL. WE DIDN'T DO IT. WE DIDN'T DO IT. I SAID IT FOR YEARS.
 ONCE WE WERE IN, I SAID WHEN WE GET OUT, IT'S GOING TO BE A DISASTER, BUT WHEN 
WE GET OUT, WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE. AND I HATE SAYING THAT. BUT W
E SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE, AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER, CERTAINLY, 
THAN IT IS RIGHT NOW. CAN'T BE ANY WORSE. BUT I ALWAYS SAID KEEP THE OIL. BUT WE
 DIDN'T KEEP THE OIL. SO WHO HAS THE OIL RIGHT NOW? A LOT OF THE OIL IS HAD BY I
SIS. AND WE CREATED ISIS. AND HILLARY CLINTON THROUGH HER INCOMPETENCE DIRECTLY 
AND INDIRECTLY CREATED ISIS. AND NOW SHE WANTS TO GET RID OF IT. SHE SAYS YES, W
E WILL FIGHT ISIS. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT WITH STUPIDITY, WITH STUPID, S
TUPID POLICY. POLICY THAT'S ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED
 IT. AND THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENED. AND SO NOW WE HAVE PROBLEMS ALL OVER THE PLACE.
 WE HAVE OUR CITIES EXPLODING. WE HAVE ISIS LOOKING AT US. AND BY THE WAY, WHEN 
OUR ENEMIES ALL OVER THE WORLD, INCLUDING OUR FRIENDS ALL OVER THE WORLD LOOK AT
 WHAT'S HAPPENING TO OUR COUNTRY, WHERE THE OTHER NIGHT YOU HAD 11, THINK OF IT,
 11 CITIES POTENTIALLY IN A BLOWUP STAGE. MARCHES ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES, AN
D TOUGH MARCHES, ANGER, HATRED, HATRED. STARTED BY A MANIAC THAT SOME PEOPLE ASK
ED FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR HIM. FOR THE KILLER, FOR THE KILLER. OKAY? SO WHE
N OUR ENEMIES LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON WITH OUR COUNTRY, THEY SEE OUR DEFICITS. 
THEY SEE WE DON'T WIN ANYMORE. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN AT ANYTH
ING. I ALWAYS SAY WHEN I WAS GOING, WHEN I WAS YOUNG GOING TO HIGH SCHOOL AND GO
ING TO COLLEGE AND BEFORE THAT WE NEVER LOST. YOU KNOW, UNITED STATES, THEY SAID
 HAD NEVER LOST A WAR. NOW WE NEVER WIN. WE DON'T WIN ON TRADE. WE DON'T WIN WIT
H OUR MILITARY. OUR MILITARY IS SO DEPLETED, OUR MILITARY HAS FIGHTER JETS THAT 
ARE IN USE FLOWN BY GREAT, GREAT AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT ARE SO OLD, AND THEY CAN'T
 GET PARTS FOR THE FIGHTER JETS. THESE ARE PEOPLE FLYING THESE JETS NOW IN COMBA
T. THEY CAN'T GET PARTS. SO THEY GO TO THE PLANE GRAVEYARDS IN THE DESERTS. THEY
 GO TO MUSEUMS WHERE THEY HAVE SIMILAR PLANES, AND THEY STRIP APART TO USE FOR O
UR FIGHTER PILOTS TO FLY. THIS IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN REDUCED TO. AND I'LL TELL YOU 
SOMETHING. HILLARY CLINTON IS INCOMPETENT, OKAY. THE GREATEST SINGLE THING IN MY
 OPINION THAT SHE'S EVER DONE IS TO GET OUT OF THE E-MAIL PROBLEM. I THINK IT IS
 INCREDIBLE. SHE DID A GREAT JOB ON THAT. I THINK IT IS HER GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT
. I THINK WHEN THEY LOOK BACK ON HILLARY CLINTON, THEY WILL SAY THE GREATEST ACH
IEVEMENT OF HILLARY CLINTON WAS GETTING OUT OF THIS PROBLEM WITH E-MAIL TZ. HOUD
INI COULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN OUT. SHE WAS SO GUILTY. I HAVE A LIST. LOOK. PAGE AFTER
 PAGE OF THE LIES -- PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES. ALL OVER. LOOK AT THIS. PAGE, 
PAGE. LOOK, I DON'T WANT TO READ IT TO YOU. THE PRESS WOULD SAY, YOU SHOULD SPEN
D YOUR ENTIRE SPEECH TALKING ABOUT HILLARY CLINTON AND THE E-MAILS. I DON'T WANT
 TO TALK ABOUT IT. YOU KNOW WHAT, IT WAS ALL LIES, FOLKS. I DON'T HAVE TO GO THR
OUGH AND BORE EVERYBODY. IT WAS SO HORRIBLE. IT WAS SO DISGUSTING. IT WAS SO OUT
RAGEOUS. YOU LOOK AT GENERAL PETRAEUS AND LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM FOR A TIN
Y FRACTION OF WHAT CROOKED HILLARY DID. YOU LOOK AT OTHER PEOPLE, FOR A TINY FRA
CTION, LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM. SO I JUST TELL YOU THIS, WE HAVE A CANDIDA
TE ON THE OTHER SIDE WHO, IF SHE EVER GETS ELECTED, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE DISGUST
ING YEARS OF OBAMA, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF WEAKNESS, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE
 YEARS OF CIVIL UNREST. IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF NOT WINNING WITH OUR MILIT
ARY AND NOT WINNING AGAINST ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE HOW TO BEAT ISIS. THEY 
DON'T HAVE A CLUE. BUT IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA, AND OBAMA CARE AND A
LL OF THESE THINGS THAT DON'T WORK. EXCEPT I THINK ACTUALLY IT WILL BE WORSE. TO
DAY I SEE BERNIE SANDERS GAVE HER THIS VERY YOU KNOW, SORT OF STRANGE ENDORSEMEN
T. I WANT TO TELL YOU, A LOT OF BERNIE SANDERS PEOPLE ARE SO UPSET ABOUT IT, THE
Y ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. I REALLY BELIEVE THAT. THEY'RE GOING TO BE V
OTING FOR TRUMP. THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. BECAUSE THE ONE THING TH
AT BERNIE SANDERS AND I HAVE IN COMMON WAS TRADE. NOW HE CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT
 IT. HE JUST KNEW IT WAS BAD. I KNOW HOW TO FIX IT. BECAUSE I AM IN FAVOR OF FRE
E TRADE. A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY I'M AN ISOLATIONIST, WHEN YOU LOSE $800 BILLION A Y
EAR ON TRADE DEFICITS, MAYBE THAT IS NOT THE WORSE THING. BUT WE'LL STRAIGHT IT 
OUT. I BELIEVE IN OPEN BORDERS FOR TRADE AND FREE TRADE. THE PROBLEM WE HAVE IS 
THAT VIRTUALLY EVERY SINGLE COUNTRY THAT DEALS WITH US ARE FAR SHARPER AND FAR B
ETTER. THEY HAVE THEIR BEST NEGOTIATORS. WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE POLITICAL HACKS
 NEGOTIATING FOR US AND PEOPLE THAT DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING. I HAVE THE GR
EATEST BUSINESSMEN IN THE WORLD THAT HAVE ENDORSED ME, INCLUDING PEOPLE LIKE CAR
L ICAHN, GREAT BUSINESSMAN. WE HAVE SOME OF THE GREATEST NEGOTIATORS, MAYBE THE 
GREATEST IN THE WORLD AND WE DON'T USE THEM. WE USE POLITICAL HACKS. WE HAVE PEO
PLE IN THERE THAT GOT IN FOR POLITICS. YOU COULD LOOK AT THE BIGGEST COMPANIES I
N THE WORLD, AND IT IS SMALL POTATOES. IT IS PEANUTS COMPARED TO SOME OF THE MAS
SIVE TRADE DEALS. AND WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT SHOULD NEVER BE NEGOTIATING TRADE DEAL
S. JUST LIKE WE HAVE SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN, AND WHAT TH
EY DID TO HIM AND YOU BECAUSE HE HAS NO IDEA WHAT THE HELL HE WAS DOING AND WHAT
 HE GAVE AWAY, ISRAEL IS IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, FRANKLY WE'RE IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY,
 AND WE MADE A POWER OUT OF IRAN. WE MADE A POWER. NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE NE
VER GONE IN AND NEGOTIATED THAT DEAL UNTIL WE GOT OUR HOSTAGES BACK. EVER. EVER.
 WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER, EVER GONE IN. AND WHAT YOU SAY IS, FOLKS, WE HAVE TO GET 
THEM BACK. AND IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GIVE THEM BACK, YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. YOU L
EAVE THE MEETING. AND YOU DOUBLE UP YOUR SANCTIONS, YOU WOULD HAVE HAD THEM BACK
 WITHIN 24 HOURS, I GUARANTEE YOU THAT. BUT WE DSHTIDN'T DO THAT. I KEPT WAITING
 FOR THE WHOLE DELEGATION, I KEPT WAITING FOR THEM TO LEAVE, TO GET UP AND LEAVE
. I USED TO SAY GET UP AND LEAVE. PERFECT. GET UP. WE DIDN'T WIN ANYTHING. THE O
NLY TIME THAT KERRY LEFT WAS AT 73 YEARS OLD TO GO INTO A BICYCLE LACE WHERE HE 
FELL AND BROKE HIS LEG, RIGHT. AND I ALWAYS TELL PEOPLE, I PROMISE YOU I WILL NE
VER ENTER A BICYCLE RACE WHEN I'M IN THE MIDST OF AN IMPORTANT NUCLEAR NEGOTIATI
ON, I PROMISE. I PROMISE. BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT, NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE GO
TTEN THEM BACK. AND THE OTHER THING, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GIVEN THEM BACK THE $1
50 BILLION. AND I WOULD HAVE SAID VERY NICELY, MY FATHER USED TO THINK I WAS A L
ITTLE BIT ROUGH, AND HE USED TO GO, EASY, SON. SON, TAKE IT NICE AND EASY. YOU H
AVE TO TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. HE HAD AN EXPRESSION. GOOD FATHER. WE ALL HAVE GREAT 
FATHERS, I HOPE. I HAD A GOOD FATHER. BUT I LEARNED A LOT. HE SAID, AND HE WOULD
 GO LIKE THIS THE LUMPS OUT. TAKE THE LUMPS. EASY. NICE AND EASY. TAKE THE LUMPS
 OUT. YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. WHAT DO YOU MEAN, POP? YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUG
H. AND OVER THE YEARS, I THINK I LEARNED THAT. MADE GREAT DEALS AND BUILT A GREA
T COMPANY. GREAT COMPANY. TOOK ADVANTAGE OF EVERY SINGLE THING YOU CAN BECAUSE Y
OU ARE WORKING FOR YOURSELF AND FAMILIES AND YOUR EMPLOYEES AND TOOK ADVANTAGE O
F THE LAWS, SOME OF THE LAWS ARE THE DUMBEST LAWS I'VE EVER SEEN AND SO STUPID B
UT YOU TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. YOU'RE LIKE A BUSINESS PERSON, RIGHT, GOT TO TAKE
 ADVANTAGE OF THEM. BECAUSE YOU ARE REALLY REPRESENTING YOUR EMPLOYEES, YOUR COM
PANY AND YOUR FAMILY. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHA
T I WOULD HAVE SAID ON THE 150. IN THE OLD DAYS WHEN I'M YOUNG, I WOULD SAY WE'R
E NOT PAYING YOU BACK THE 150 BILLION, YOU'RE NOT GETTING IT. AND THERE COULD BE
 A LOT OF HARD FEELING IN THE ROOM. TAKE A WHILE -- THEY WILL STILL COME BACK, D
ON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. BECAUSE THEY NEED US. THEY NEED US. AND THEN I WOULD HAVE L
EFT AND HERE GO THE SANCTIONS. I WOULD HAVE DONE TWO THINGS. NUMBER ONE, HOSTAGE
S BEFORE WE UTTER THE FIRST WORD. AND NUMBER TWO -- AND HOW LONG WERE THE HOSTAG
ES THERE. THAT NEGOTIATION TOOK FOREVER AND WE DIDN'T WIN A POINT. WE LOST EVERY
THING. THEY'RE GOING TO BE A NUCLEAR POWER AND THEY ARE RICH AND POWERFUL. HOW A
BOUT YEMEN. THEY ARE FIGHTING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF YEMEN. AND THEY'RE FIGHTING A
ND WEE FIGHTING. WHY DIDN'T THEY MAKE THE DEAL TO GET OUT OF YEMEN AND KERRY SAI
D BECAUSE HE DIDN'T WANT TO COME PLIBLG ATE -- COMPLICATE THE NEGOTIATIONS. THEY
 DON'T WANT TO BRING SOMETHING ELSE TO COMPLICATE IT. THESE ARE AMATEURS. BUT MY
 FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD SAY. WE WOULDN'T B
E NEGOTIATING BECAUSE OUR PRISONERS WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK YEARS AGO. I WOULD HAVE
 SAID, LOOK, FELLAS, HERE IS THE STORY. WE HAVE A PROBLEM. OUR COUNTRY IS FLAT B
ROKE. WE OWE 19 TRILLION AND GOING TO BE 20 TRILLION OR $21 TRILLION WITH THE OM
NIBUS VERY SOON. I WANT TO GIVE YOU THE MONEY BACK, I REALLY DO. WE DON'T HAVE I
T, I'M SORRY. THEY WOULD HAVE GONE NUTS. THEY WOULD HAVE SAID, WHAT DO YOU MEAN 
YOU HAVE TO GIVE US -- NO, NO, WE WANT TO. WE DON'T HAVE IT. I WANT TO SO BADLY.
 WE LOVE YOU. YOU'RE SUCH GREAT PEOPLE. SUCH NICE PEOPLE. SO KIND. TAKE A LOOK A
T WHAT THEY DO TO THEIR HOSTAGE AND PRISONERS AND YOU'LL FIND OUT ABOUT TOUGH PE
OPLE. GREAT NEGOTIATORS. PERSIANS, GREAT NEGOTIATORS. I WOULD HAVE SAID, REMEMBE
R, NICE AND EASY. I WOULD HAVE RATHER DONE IT MY WAY, BUT I RESPECTED MY FATHER.
 SO I WOULD HAVE SAID, WE DON'T HAVE THE MONEY, CAN'T DO IT. THEY WOULD HAVE LEF
T AND WE WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK IN TWO WEEKS. WE WOULD HAVE
 SAVED $150 BILLION. SO THOSE TWO THINGS. WE WOULD HAVE HAD OUR HOSTAGES BACK AN
D SAVED $150 BILLION. NOW THEY ARE SO RICH, THEY ARE BUYING AIRLINERS, THEY ARE 
BUYING EVERYTHING. THEY ARE BUYING PROBABLY NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE JUST DON'T KNOW 
ABOUT IT, OKAY. WHAT THE HELL -- DO YOU HAVE TO -- NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE'RE WORRIE
D ABOUT THEM MAKING NUCLEAR WEAPONS. THEY'LL BUY THEM. THEY HAVE THE MONEY. THEY
 MADE SUCH FOOLS OUT OF US. FOLKS, THOSE DAYS ARE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. THEY'RE OV
ER. I CALL OBAMA THE FIVE-FOR-ONE PRESIDENT. SO WE HAVE A TRADER NAMED SERGEANT 
BERGDAHL. SO SERGEANT BERGDAHL THINKS HE LIKES THEIR WAY OF LIFE, OBVIOUSLY. OH,
 THEY HAVE A WONDERFUL WAY OF LIFE. SO ONE DAY HE LEAVES. WE LOSE FIVE AND MAYBE
 SIX, BUT FIVE AT LEAST PEOPLE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY WERE KILLED. THEY WERE KILL
ED BY THE ENEMY. THEY GO OUT THERE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY KNEW HE LEFT. EVERYBODY
 WITH HIM KNEW HE LEFT BECAUSE HE WAS ALL WHACKED OUT AND A BELIEVER IN THEM, NO
T US. SO THEY KNEW HE LEFT. SO KNOWING THAT, THE FACT THEY HAVE A COLONEL AND I 
BELIEVE A GENERAL TALKING TO THE PEOPLE THAT KNEW HIM, AND THEY TOLD THE COLONEL
 AND THE GENERAL THAT HE LEFT. HE DESERTED. REMEMBER THE OLD DAY, A DESERTER, WH
AT HAPPENED? BANG. 20 YEARS AGO, IT WAS BANG, BUT SLOWLY. TEN YEARS AGO IT WAS L
ONG PRISON. TODAY THEY ARE PROBABLY TALKING ABOUT NOTHING. THAT IS WHERE WE'VE C
OME. BUT I CALL HIM THE FIVE-FOR-ONE. SO WE GET BERGDAHL, RIGHT, A TRADER. AND T
HEY GET FIVE OF THE MOST VICIOUS KILLERS THAT THEY HAVE, THAT THEY'VE BEEN AFTER
 FOR NINE YEARS TO GET THEM OUT AND THEY BRING THEM AND THEY ARE BACK ON THE BAT
TLEFIELD TRYING TO KILL EVERYBODY, INCLUDING US. THIS STUFF HAS GOT TO STOP, FOL
KS. AND GITMO, WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE GOING TO FILL IT UP. WE'RE NOT CLO
SING GITMO. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. AND I SEE HILLARY CLINTON SAID, I DO NOT LI
KE DONALD TRUMP'S TONE. LOOK, HERE IS THE STORY. I THINK I HAVE A GREAT TEMPERAM
ENT. SHE USES THE WORD TEMPERAMENT BUT I LOVE WHEN SHE USES THE WORD TONE. THEY 
ARE CHOPPING HEADS OFF OF CHRISTIANS AND EVERYBODY ELSE. WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT SI
NCE MEDIEVAL TIMES. YOU READ THE HISTORY BOOKS, THEY CHOPPED OFF HEADS. WELL, TH
EY ARE CHOPPING OFF HEADS. THEY ARE DROWNING PEOPLE IN STEEL CAGES, BY THE DOZEN
S, AT A TIME. AND SHE SAYS, WE DON'T LIKE HIS TONE. LET ME TELL YOU, FOLKS, IT I
S TIME FOR A TOUGH TONE. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. W
E'VE HAD ENOUGH. SO WE'RE GOING TO DO THINGS THE SMART WAY. I REMEMBER DURING TH
E DEBATE THEY ASKED ONE OF THE FOLKS ON THE DEBUT STAGE WHO IS BECOMING FRIENDLI
ER AND FRIENDLIER BY THE DAY WITH ME, WHICH SOME OF THE PEOPLE ARE RECOVERING. I
T WAS -- I'LL TELL YOU WHAT. THEY SAY IT WAS THE NASTIEST PRIMARY THAT ANYBODY H
AS SEEN. THEY SAY THE NASTIEST IN RECORDED HISTORY. WHO KNEW WHAT WENT ON BEFORE
 RECORDED. BUT IT WAS PRETTY NASTY. AND SOME OF THE FOLKS, I SAW ONE YESTERDAY, 
I WILL NOT EVEN MENTION NAMES BECAUSE I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH EVERYBODY, RIGHT
. I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH THEM. EXCEPT FOR THE REAL ENEMY. BUT THEY'LL SIGN A 
DOCUMENT, ALL RIGHT, IT IS CALLED A PLEDGE. I PLEDGE -- I PLEDGE, I SWEAR, I PLE
DGE THAT IF I DON'T MAKE IT, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE NOMINEE OF THE PARTY. IT D
OESN'T SAY, SUBJECT TO CHANGE, SUBJECT TO THE WEATHER, SUBJECT TO THE SUN DOESN'
T COME UP. NO. IT SAID, I PLEDGE. AND FOR THAT PLEDGE, THEY GOT ACCESS TO MILLIO
NS OF DOLLARS WORTH OF MATERIAL FROM THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE, THE RNC.
 REINCE PRIEBUS, DOING A GREAT JOB. AND IF HE DOESN'T, I'LL TELL YOU. AND IF HE 
DOESN'T OVER THE NEXT FOUR OR FIVE WEEKS, I'LL TELL YOU. BUT THEY GOT ACCESS. SO
 THEY SIGNED A PLEDGE THEY WILL SUPPORT. I DON'T WANT THEIR SUPPORT. IT WON'T ME
AN ONE VOTE THAN PERHAPS THEIR FAMILY. IT DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING. BUT I SIGNED TH
E PLEDGE, TOO. AND EVERYBODY WANTED TO SIGN THE PLEDGE. AND THE REASON THEY SIGN
ED THE PLEDGE WAS TO GET ME TO SIGN IT. I SIGNED IT. I WOULD HAVE HONORED IT. I 
SAID PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR PLEDGES. PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY SIGN T
HEM. YOU KNOW, NOT A BIG DEAL. NOT A BIG DEAL. BUT THEY SHOULD HONOR THEM. SO HE
RE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE'RE LOSING OUR COUNTRY. WE'RE LIKE A PIECE OF SWISS CH
EESE AT THE BORDERS. THAT IS GOING TO END. THAT'S GOING TO END. YOU KNOW, THE BO
RDER PATROL AGENTS, 16,500, FIRST TIME IN HISTORY THEY'VE DONE THIS, THEY'VE NEV
ER DONE THIS BEFORE, 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS HAVE ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP. THE
Y KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY WHAT IS GOING ON AT THE BORDER. AND BY THE WAY, IF AN
D WHEN WE WIN, IT IS WE -- I'M JUST A MESSENGER FOLKS, I'M TELLING A MESSAGE OF 
COMMON STRENGTH BUT I'M JUST YOUR MESSENGER AND I'M DOING A GOOD JOB AS A MAEPGE
SSENGER, IN ALL FAIRNESS, BUT 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP 
AND WHAT THEY DO NOW IS STAND THERE WITH BEAUTIFUL EQUIPMENT, GREAT PEOPLE, PEOP
LE WALK RIGHT BY THEM. THAT IS AN EASY JOB. THEY CAN'T STAND IT. BECAUSE THEY DO
N'T LIKE WHAT IS COMING INTO OUR COUNTRY. THEY WANT TO DO THEIR JOB. WITH ME, TH
EY'RE GOING TO BE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I SAID TO THEM, WHEN THEY CALLED ME T
O TELL ME ABOUT THE ENDORSEMENT, NEVER DONE IT BEFORE, THEY'VE NEVER ENDORSED A 
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BEFORE, 16,500, GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE AND I SAID TO THEM, S
O LET ME TELL YOU, I WANT TO ASK YOU THIS QUESTION -- HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL?
 THEY SAID, MR. TRUMP, THE WALL IS VITAL. I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WOULD HAVE DONE IF
 THEY SAID IT IS NOT IMPORTANT. I WOULD HAVE SAID, I GUESS WE'RE NOT BUILDING IT
 BECAUSE I RESPECT THESE PEOPLE, THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY. THEY KNOW A HELL
 OF A LOT OF BETTER THAN CONSULTANTS AND PEOPLE MAKING A MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THA
T DON'T HAVE A CLUE. WHO IS BETTER AT THAT? I SAID HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? MR
. TRUMP, NEVER FORGET THE ANSWER, THE WALL IS VITAL. IT IS VITAL. VERY IMPORTANT
. VERY IMPORTANT. THEY ACTUALLY SAID IT IS A TOOL TOWARD REAL SECURITY, AN IMPOR
TANT TOOL. AND THEN I SPOKE WITH SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO FROM ARIZONA AND HE CALLED M
E OUT OF THE BLUE AND I'VE READ ABOUT SHERIFF JOE, I MEAN, HE KNOWS BORDERS, RIG
HT. AMAZING GUY. TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S AN AMAZING GUY. AND HE SAID, MR. TRUMP, I J
UST WANT TO YOU KNOW THAT I'M ENDORSING YOU BECAUSE YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STU
FF THAN ANYBODY, YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN PEOPLE DOING IT FOR 25 YEAR
S. YOU GET IT. YOU KNOW WHAT IS HAPPENING. I'M ENDORSING YOU. AND HE'S ACTUALLY 
A QUALITY PERSON. HE'S A TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S A QUALITY PERSON. HE GETS THE JOB D
ONE. AMAZING. SO I KNOW ABOUT THAT. AND WHEN IT WAS COMING TIME FOR THE WALL, I'
LL NEVER FORGET, VICENTE FOX, ON ONE OF THE MAJOR NETWORKS, USED THE F-BOMB. REM
EMBER AND I TOLD THIS STORY A COUPLE OF TIMES. HE SAID, WE WILL NOT PAY FOR THE 
F-BOMB WALL. AND I SAID, OH, HE'S DEAD. CAN YOU IMAGINE, HEADLINES TOMORROW. HE 
USED IT ON LIVE TELEVISION. AND I SAID, OH, I FEEL SO BADLY FOR THE GUY. AND NOW
 IN ONE WAY I WAS HAPPY. BECAUSE HE USED TO SAY, WE'LL NEVER BUILD THE WALL. NOW
 HE'S SAYING WE'LL NEVER PAY FOR THE WALL. SO WE MADE PROGRESS. ADD LEAST HE'S N
OW ADMITTING IT IS GOING TO GET BUILT, RIGHT. AND HE SEEMS LIKE A NICE GUY BUT H
E GOT A LITTLE BIT ROUGH. WE WILL NEVER PAY FOR THE -- F-BOMB -- WALL. I SAID OH
, THE POOR GUY HE IS GOING TO GET KILLED IN THE PAPERS. NOBODY MENTIONED IT. CAN
 YOU IMAGINE IF I THREW OUT THE F-BOMB. I THINK IT WILL BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR, R
IGHT. WOULD IT BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR. AND THE PRESS, I WILL TELL YOU -- THE PEOP
LE BACK THERE, AND I WILL TELL YOU THIS, NOT ALL OF THEM, BUT MANY OF THEM ARE T
HE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON THE EARTH. THEY ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN B
EINGS ON EARTH. I'VE HAD DAYS THAT ARE SO GOOD, AND THEN YOU WAKE UP THE NEXT MO
RNING AND YOU SAY, MAN, DID THEY TAKE THAT. I WON'T EVEN SAY WHAT THINGS -- I CO
ULD GO ONE AFTER ANOTHER. AND WE DON'T MAKE A LOT OF MISTAKES, ALL OF US, WE DON
'T MAKE MISTAKES BUT WHAT THEY DO IS TAKE A SENTENCE AND MAKE IT MUCH DIFFERENT 
THAN WHAT YOU SAID, MUCH DIFFERENT FROM WHAT YOU MEANT. AND ALL OF A SUDDEN, THE
Y'LL SAY, DONALD TRUMP HAD A BAD WEEK BECAUSE HE SAID SOMETHING PERFECT. PERFECT
. OKAY. PERFECT. I'M TELLING YOU, FOLKS, AND I TELL IT ALL OF THE TIME, BECAUSE 
AS A REPUBLICAN, AND AS A REPUBLICAN CONSERVATIVE, WE ARE AT A TREMENDOUS DISADV
ANTAGE. YOU LOOK AT THE WAY THEY TREAT CROOKED HILLARY, YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THIS 
COMPARED TO THE WAY THEY TREAT OTHER PEOPLE, OR THE WAY THEY TREAT ME, THEY ARE 
SOME OF THE WORST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I REALLY MEAN IT. I REALLY MEAN IT. YOU
 KNOW, WHERE ARE MY PROTESTS. I WANT SOME PROTESTERS. YOU KNOW, LOOK AT THIS ROO
M. THE GOVERNOR JUST SAID HE'S NEVER SEEN A ROOM LIKE THIS IN INDIANA WITH THIS 
MANY PEOPLE. HE'S NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. LOOK AT THIS THING. THIS IS WHERE
 YOUR FOOTBALL TEAM -- LOOK AT THE CEILINGS. EVERYTHING IS NIGHT. I ALWAYS TALK 
ABOUT THE WALL IS GOING TO BE REALLY HIGH, BUT THAT IS REALLY HIGH UP THERE. THA
T IS A BIG ONE. BUT YOU DON'T SEE CROWDS LIKE THIS. WE HAVE CROWDS LIKE THIS EVE
RYWHERE, NO MATTER WHERE WE GO. AND EVERY TIME I GO HOME AND MY WIFE SAYS HOW WA
S THE CROWD. AND I ALWAYS SAY, DIDN'T YOU SEE IT? THEY KEEP THOSE CAMERAS ON MY 
FACE, THEY NEVER TAKE THE CAMERAS OFF MY FACE BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE -- 
I WISH THEY WOULD TURN THE CAMERAS OVER HERE. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. TAKE A 
LOOK AT THIS CROWD. LOOK, THE CAMERAS AREN'T MOVING. THEY ARE REALLY DISHONEST. 
I REALLY MEAN THIS. THEY ARE SO DISHONEST. THAT IS WHY I LOVE MY PROTESTERS. BEC
AUSE THE ONLY TIME THEY MOVE THE CAMERAS ARE WHEN WE HAVE A PROTEST. IF SOMEBODY
 WERE UP THERE SCREAMING OR SHOUTING, THE CAMERAS, WHICH I USED TO THINK WERE IN
 A FIXED POSITION, I SAID MAYBE MECHANICALLY THEY CAN'T MOVE, BUT WHEN WE HAVE A
 PROTESTER, THEY TURN AND -- THEY ARE LIKE A PRETZEL ALL OVER THE PLACE. THROUGH
 THE CAMERAMAN'S LEGS, UP AROUND HIS ANKLES. YOU NEVER SAW CAMERAS MOVE LIKE THI
S. THE FACT IS THAT YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING. AND THE SYSTEM IS WOND
ERFUL IN MANY WAYS, BUT REALLY BAD IN OTHERS. AND ONE OF THE WORST ASPECTS OF OU
R SYSTEM IS THE DISHONEST PRESS. THE DISHONEST MEDIA IS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS.
 I REALLY MEAN IT. THEY WRITE AND SAY THINGS THAT ARE DISGRACEFUL. SO -- AND I L
IKE TO SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT, WHEN PEOPLE SEE OR READ OR HEAR THINGS, THEY'LL SAY, 
I'LL TELL YOU WHAT -- ONE OF THE MOST INCREDIBLE -- PEOPLE SAY WHAT HAVE YOU LEA
RNED? I SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT I'VE LEARNED IS HOW SMART THE PEOPLE ARE. BECAUSE TH
EIR RATING IS SO LOW, THEY ARE SO -- THOUGHT OF SO BADLY, IT IS LIKE HOW SMART T
HE PEOPLE WERE. AND I'LL SAY THIS. VARIOUS ANCHORS, SOME OF WHOM TRULY DISLIKE D
ONALD TRUMP HAVE SAID WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO US -- TO US, I'M THE MESSENGER, YOU'R
E THE IMPORTANT ONES IN THIS WHOLE THING, BUT WHAT HAPPENED TO US IS ONE OF THE 
GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENONS THEY'VE EVER SEEN IN THE HISTORY OF THE COUNTRY. 
I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. BILL O'REILLY, OF COURSE I'M O
N HIS SHOW TONIGHT SO IF YOU GET HOME YOU WILL SEE THE SECOND EDITION. BUT BILL 
O'REILLY SAID, THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LI
FETIME. NOW HE'S A PRO. A SMART GUY AND TOUGH. TOUGH. BUT THE SINGLE GREATEST PO
LITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME IS DONALD TRUMP AND ALL OF US,
 THE WHOLE THING. WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER -- WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER OF "TIME" M
AGAZINE, SO MUCH THAT IT BECOMES ROUTINE. IN FACT, THEY JUST TOLD ME, MR. TRUMP,
 SIR, YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE AGAIN THIS WEEK. I SAID ALL RIGHT. 
IN THE OLD DAYS, I WOULD SAY THAT IS A BIG DEAL. AND NOW IT IS LIKE, REALLY, THA
T IS GOOD, THAT IS ALL RIGHT. YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. I'M NOT ON T
HE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. YOU'RE ON THE COVER. JUST REMEMBER THAT. SO WE HAVE A
 LOT OF THINGS THAT ARE TAKING PLACE. WE HAVE A BADEN EMMY, WE HAVE AN ENEMY THA
T IS DISHONEST AND A PRESS THAT IS DISHONEST. WE HAVE A GROUP OF PEOPLE THAT WAN
T TO GET ELECTED WHO HAVE A RIGGED SYSTEM AND WHO HAVE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM 
TO A LARGE EXTENT. THEY'VE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM. SAY WHAT YOU WANT ABOUT BER
NIE SANDERS, BUT THE SUPER-DELEGATES, THAT WAS WORSE THAN WHAT HAPPENED WITH US.
 AND FRANKLY, THE ONLY REASON I COULD WIN IS WE WON IN SUCH LANDSLIDES ALL OVER 
THE PLACE, INCLUDING IN INDIANA. WHAT A LANDSLIDE THAT WAS. AND WE LOVE BOBBY KN
IGHT. DO WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. OH, THAT BOBBY KNIGHT. I LOVE MY BOBBY KNIGHT. WE
 HAD SO MANY COACHES, GENE AND DIGGER AND BOBBY. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES. LOU, LO
U HOLTS. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES THAT CAME OUT IN OUR FAVOR. I DO WELL WITH COACH
ES. BUT THE COACHES LIKE ME. BUT BOBBY WAS OUT HERE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I C
OULD SEE IT RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING. THIS WAS GOING TO BE THE WATER SHED. BUT BOB
BY CAME OUT AND I CAME OUT AND WE WENT TO A RINAS -- ARENA ARENAS, YOU'VE NEVER 
SEEN SO MANY PEOPLE. MAYBE YOU'VE BEEN AT SOME OF THE ARENAS. IT IS AMAZING. SO 
HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE HAVE TO STOP FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA. WE'VE GOT TO
 STOP HILLARY CLINTON, WHO IS AS CROOKED AS THEY COME. WE'VE GOT TO BRING OUR CO
UNTRY BACK. WE HAVE TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE DEAL TH
AT'S BRING OUR JOBS BACK. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG GREAT WITH THESE COUNTRIE
S AND TRADE WITH THESE COUNTRIES. I AM NOT AN ISOLATIONIST, I'M A FREE TRADER. B
UT I'M A FREE TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEAL -- TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEALS, NOT TO 
MAKE HORRIBLE DEALS. ONE OF THE PEOPLE STANDING RIGHT THERE, SAID TO ME, MR. TRU
MP, ARE YOU AN ISOLATIONIST, AND MR. TRUMP -- AND I SAID NO. AND WHAT IS YOUR DE
FINITION OF TRADE? AND I SAID VERY SIMPLE. I KNOW FREE AND I KNOW EVERY FORM OF 
TRADE KNOWN TO MANKIND. HERE IS MY DEFINITION OF TRADE. MY DEFINITION OF "TRADE"
 IS THAT I WANT TO MAKE GREAT DEALS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. YOU CAN CALL IT WHA
TEVER THE HELL YOU WANT. OKAY. AND WE'RE GOING TO. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS
 BACK. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR MANUFACTURING BACK. YOU LOOK AT WHAT HAS HAPPENE
D TO THE MANUFACTURING SINCE BILL CLINTON SIGNED PROBABLY THE WORST DEAL ECONOMI
CALLY IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY, NAFTA. THAT DEAL WAS SIGNED BY BILL CLINTON
. YOU LOOK AT AREAS EVEN FROM HERE, BUT YOU LOOK AT PLACES, YOU LOOK AT PLACES L
IKE NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK STATE AND PENNSYLVANIA, GREAT STATE -- WE'RE LEADIN
G IN PENNSYLVANIA BY THE WAY. IT JUST CAME OUT. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN FLORIDA.
 I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN OHIO. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THE 
RASMUSSEN POLL JUST CAME OUT, WE'RE LEADING NASHLTIONALLY. BUT WE HAVE A LONG WA
Y TO GO. WE ARE DEALING WITH A DISHONEST SYSTEM AND A CROOKED SYSTEM AND A RIGGE
D SYSTEM SO WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO FOLKS, AND WE DON'T WANT ANYBODY TO TAKE IT
 AWAY FROM US. AND WHEN THIS PERSON SAID TO ME, BY THE WAY, WHAT YOU'VE DONE IS 
NEVER DONE BEFORE, CONGRATULATIONS, IT DOESN'T EVEN MATTER IF YOU WIN OR LOSE TH
E ELECTION, WHAT YOU'VE DONE HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, WINNING ALL OF THE PRIM
ARIES, BEATING GREAT PROFESSIONALS AND THEY ARE VERY TALENTED PEOPLE, IT HAS NEV
ER BEEN DONE BEFORE, YOU WILL GO DOWN IN THE HISTORY BOOKS, MR. TRUMP. I SAID DO
 ME A FAVOR. DON'T EVEN TELL ME ABOUT IT. BECAUSE IF I DON'T WIN THE NEXT ONE, I
 WILL CONSIDER IT A BIG, FAT WASTE OF TIME AND $55 MILLION I PUT UP, AND I'M STI
LL PUTTING UP A LOT MORE. AND NOW WE RAISED $51 MILLION LAST MONTH AND WE STARTE
D TOWARD THE MIDDLE OF THE MONTH. AND EVERYONE WAS SHOCKED. AND MUCH OF THAT MON
EY CAME IN SMALL DONATIONS LIKE $71 AVERAGE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT. AND I PUT UP
 MILLIONS. BUT I DID IT, LIKE, I WANT TO INCENTIVIZE PEOPLE AND I WANT PEOPLE TO
 REALIZE, I'M RAISING MONEY FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THE RNC. THAT IS WHAT W
E WANT TO DO. BECAUSE WE WANT TO KEEP OUR MAJORITY. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR HOUSE. W
E WANT TO KEEP OUR SENATE. BECAUSE I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, IF WE CAN DO THAT, AND WE
 HAVE TRUMP AS PRESIDENT, WE ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO
 BE SO GREAT FOR OUR COUNTRY. GOING TO BE AMAZING. YOU KNOW, WE'RE RUN OF THE HI
GHEST TAXED NATIONS IN THE WORLD. AND YET IN GOING AROUND AND MEETING WITH PEOPL
E, SMALL BUSINESS PEOPLE, BIG BUSINESS PEOPLE, IF THEY HAD THEIR CHANCE, AND IF 
THEY HAD THEIR CHOICE, THEY WOULD RATHER GET RID OF RULES AND REGULATION -- WE H
AVE THE WORST REGULATIONS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD. THEY ACTUALLY WOULD RATHER PAY 
MORE TAX, WHICH IS SURPRISING, AND GET RID OF THESE REGULATIONS THAT ARE CHOKING
 EVERYBODY. PEOPLE CAN'T RUN THEIR BUSINESSES. SO WE'RE GOING TO TURN THINGS ARO
UND. WE'RE GOING TO TURN THEM AROUND FAST. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LOSE CARRIER AIR-C
ONDITIONING FROM INDIANAPOLIS. YOU KNOW THAT DEAL VERY WELL. THOSE PEOPLE HAVE F
OLLOWED ME ALL OVER THE PLACE. 1400 PEOPLE, OUT OF JOBS, VISUALLY THEIR MOVING T
O MEXICO. ANY OF THE CARRIER FOLKS IN THIS ROOM? BECAUSE WE HAVE -- WE HAVE A LO
T -- LOOK AT THAT. WHY ARE YOU IN THE BACK ROW. YOU SHOULD BE IN THE FRONT ROW. 
BUT WE HAD -- DURING THE SEASON, WE HAD SO MANY OF THEM THAT FOLLOWED US AROUND.
 THEY FELT SO BADLY. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET THAT HAPPEN. PEOPLE AND COUNTRIES TA
KE OUR COMPANIES AND TAKE OUR JOBS, THERE ARE GOING TO BE CONSEQUENCES. THEY WON
'T TAKE THEM. BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET CARRIER COME IN AND MAKE AIR-CONDIT
IONERS IN MEXICO AND SELL THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO US, ACROSS A VERY STRONG BORDE
R NOW, WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE. AND WHEN WE EXPLAIN TO THE HEADS OF CARRIER THAT HER
E IS THE STORY, EITHER STAY OR IF YOU WANT TO GO TO MEXICO, WE WISH YOU A LOT OF
 LUCK BUT WHEN YOU SELL YOUR AIR-CONDITIONERS, YOU ARE GOING TO PAY A 35% TAX FO
R THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO COME ACROSS THE BORDER. AND YOU KNOW WHAT IS GOING TO 
HAPPEN. THEY ARE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THIS GOVERNMENT W
AS THINKING ABOUT LOW INTEREST LOANS, ZERO INTEREST LOANS AND WAYS TO KEEP OUR K
PZCOMPANIES. YOU DON'T NEED THAT. THEY DON'T NEED MONEY. THEY'RE MAKING PLENTY O
F MONEY. BUT WE WON'T LET THEM JUST TAKE OUR COMPANIES OUT AND FIRE EVERYBODY. T
HESE ARE PEOPLE WITH CARRIER FOR MANY, MANY YEARS. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET IT HAP
PEN. AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY THAT IS SO SMART AGAIN. SO HERE IS THETOR
Y, FOLKS. WE DON'T WIN ANY MORE. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING. WE'RE GOING TO WI
N WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO KICK THE HELL OUT OF ISIS. WE HAVE TO END IT
. WE HAVE NO CHOICE. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETS. SO IMPORTANT. OUR VET
S ARE BEING TREATED SO BADLY. I HAVE SUCH GREAT VETERAN SUPPORT. WE'RE GOING TO 
TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE STRONG BORDERS. WE'RE GOING TO HA
VE THE WALL -- OH, THAT WALL IS GOING TO BE AS BEAUTIFUL AS A WALL COULD BE. SOM
EBODY SAID, MR. TRUMP, SIR, THEY'RE GOING TO CALL IT THE TRUMP WALL. I SAID, WEL
L THEN I BETTER BUILD IT BIG AND BEAUTIFUL, RIGHT. NO. NO, I DON'T WANT THAT. BU
T WE NEED -- WE NEED GREAT BORDERS. BECAUSE WITHOUT BORDERS, WE DON'T HAVE A COU
NTRY. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS. OUR JOBS ARE GOING TO COME BACK. WE
'RE GOING TO MAKE A LOT OF MONEY ON TRADE. RIGHT NOW WE LOSE ALL OF THIS MONEY. 
YOU LOOK AT JAPAN, THE BIGGEST SHIPS YOU'VE EVER SEEN FLOATING IN, AND I WAS IN 
LOS ANGELES, THEY FLOAT IN THESE MASSIVE, MASSIVE SHIPS LOADED UP WITH CARS. AND
 THE CARS ARE POURING JUST LIKE -- I MEAN, NASCAR. I LOVE NASCAR. I LOVE BRIAN F
RANCE. HE ENDORSED ME FROM NASCAR, RIGHT. NASCAR. IT IS LIKE NASCAR DRIVERS. KIN
G RICHARD ENDORSED ME. A LOT OF THE GUYS ENDORSED ME. RICHARD PETTY. THEY COME I
N AND THEY ARE POURING OFF THESE BOATS. WE SEND THEM WHEAT. WE SEND THEM BEEF. A
ND WHEN IT GETS THERE, THEY DON'T EVEN WANT IT. THEY SEND IT BACK. YOU WANT TO S
EE TRADE IMBALANCE, LOOK AT THE IMBALANCE WE HAVE WITH JAPAN. IT WILL END, FOLKS
. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE SMART PEOPLE NOW. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT DEALS AND FAIR
 DEALS AND GET ALONG GREAT WITH JAPAN. WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG BETTER WITH THES
E COUNTRIES AND THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT US FAIRLY. AND WE HAVE ALL OF THE CARDS. 
JUST REMEMBER THAT. WE'RE THE PIGGY BANK. BUT THEY ARE GOING TO BREAK OUR PIGGY 
BANK VERY SOON. BUT WITH THE PIGGY BANK, THEY TAKE THE MONEY OUT. WE HAVE REBUIL
T CHINA. THE MONEY THEY'VE TAKEN OUT OF THIS COUNTRY, I MEAN THEY HAVE TRAINS TH
AT CAN HE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. THEY HAVE HIGHWAYS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT.
 PLACES OUTSIDE OF THIS COUNTRY IN THE MIDDLE EAST, DIFFERENT PLACES HAVE AIRPOR
TS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. WE USED TO BE AT THE TOP. NOW WE'RE LIKE A THIR
D-WORLD COUNTRY. SO HERE IS WHAT I SAY. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING AGAIN. WE'R
E GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO PROUD OF YOUR COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING
 TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO HAPPY. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR JOBS BAC
K. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR PRIDE BACK. I OFTEN JOKE, YOU'LL BE CALLING UP MIKE
 PENCE, I DON'T KNOW WHETHER HE'S GOING TO BE YOUR GOVERNOR OR YOUR VICE PRESIDE
NT OR WHO THE HELL KNOWS. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL UP -- GOOD MAN. BUT YOU'RE GO
ING TO CALL HIM AND YOU COULD EITHER SAY, GOVERNOR, OR VICE PRESIDENT, SIR, PLEA
SE, PLEASE SPEAK TO MR. TRUMP. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA
, CANNOT STAND ALL OF THESE VICTORIES. WE CAN'T TAKE IT. WE'RE NOT USED TO IT. P
LEASE, WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO BEAT ISIS. WE'RE WINNING 
ON TRADE. WE'RE WINNING AT THE BORDER. WE'RE STOPPING DRUGS FROM POURING IN. WE'
RE WINNING ON EDUCATION. WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. PLEASE, PLEASE
, MIKE, HELP US. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. AND MIKE WILL COME TO SEE ME. AND SAY, 
MR. PRESIDENT, SIR, THEY'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA CAN'T STAND 
IT. I SAY, MIKE, GO BACK AND TELL THEM, WE'RE NOT CHANGING A DAMN THING. WE'RE G
OING TO KEEP WINNING. AND WE'RE GOING TO WIN AT EVERY LEVEL. AND WE ARE GOING TO
 MAKE AMERICA SO GREAT AGAIN, WE'RE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREATER THAN EVER BEFO
RE. I LOVE YOU INDIANA. THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR HELP. YOU'RE REALLY SPECIAL PE
OPLE. THANK YOU. WE LOVE YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. THANK Y
OU.


7/11/2016






6/28/2016


It is great to be here. I’d like to thank Alumisource and all the amazing work
ers here for hosting us. Today, I am going to talk about how to Make America Wea
lthy Again.
We are thirty miles from Steel City. Pittsburgh played a central role in buildin
g our nation.
The legacy of Pennsylvania steelworkers lives in the bridges, railways and skysc
rapers that make up our great American landscape.
But our workers’ loyalty was repaid with betrayal.
Our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalization – moving o
ur jobs, our wealth and our factories to Mexico and overseas.
Globalization has made the financial elite who donate to politicians very wealth
y. But it has left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and heartach
e.
When subsidized foreign steel is dumped into our markets, threatening our factor
ies, the politicians do nothing.
For years, they watched on the sidelines as our jobs vanished and our communitie
s were plunged into depression-level unemployment.
Many of these areas have still never recovered.
Our politicians took away from the people their means of making a living and sup
porting their families.
Skilled craftsmen and tradespeople and factory workers have seen the jobs they l
oved shipped thousands of miles away.
Many Pennsylvania towns once thriving and humming are now in a state despair.
This wave of globalization has wiped out our middle class.
It doesn’t have to be this way. We can turn it all around – and we can turn 
it around fast.
But if we’re going to deliver real change, we’re going to have to reject the
 campaign of fear and intimidation being pushed by powerful corporations, media 
elites, and political dynasties.
The people who rigged the system for their benefit will do anything – and say 
anything – to keep things exactly as they are.
The people who rigged the system are supporting Hillary Clinton because they kno
w as long as she is in charge nothing will ever change.
The inner cities will remain poor.
The factories will remain closed.
The borders will remain open.
The special interests will remain firmly in control.
Hillary Clinton and her friends in global finance want to scare America into thi
nking small – and they want to scare the American people out of voting for a b
etter future.
READ: How Donald Trump Says He’d Win America’s Trade War
Top U.S. Labor Leader Blasts Donald Trump in Dueling Speeches
My campaign has the opposite message.
I want you to imagine how much better your life can be if we start believing in 
America again.
I want you to imagine how much better our future can be if we declare independen
ce from the elites who’ve led us to one financial and foreign policy disaster 
after another.
Our friends in Britain recently voted to take back control of their economy, pol
itics and borders.
I was on the right side of that issue – with the people – while Hillary, as 
always, stood with the elites, and both she and president Obama predicted that o
ne wrong.
Now it’s time for the American people to take back their future.
That’s the choice we face. We can either give in to Hillary Clinton’s campai
gn of fear, or we can choose to Believe In America.
We lost our way when we stopped believing in our country.
America became the world’s dominant economy by becoming the world’s dominant
 producer.
The wealth this created was shared broadly, creating the biggest middle class th
e world had ever known.
But then America changed its policy from promoting development in America, to pr
omoting development in other nations.
We allowed foreign countries to subsidize their goods, devalue their currencies,
 violate their agreements, and cheat in every way imaginable.
Trillions of our dollars and millions of our jobs flowed overseas as a result.
I have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half o
f manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years.
Today, we import nearly $800 billion more in goods than we export.
This is not some natural disaster. It is politician-made disaster.
It is the consequence of a leadership class that worships globalism over America
nism.
This is a direct affront to our Founding Fathers, who wanted America to be stron
g, independent and free.
Our Founding Fathers Understood Trade
George Washington said that “the promotion of domestic manufactur[ing] will be
 among the first consequences to flow from an energetic government.”
Alexander Hamilton spoke frequently of the “expediency of encouraging manufact
ur[ing] in the United States.” The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln
, warned that: “The abandonment of the protective policy by the American gover
nment… must produce want and ruin among our people.”
Our original Constitution did not even have an income tax. Instead, it had tarif
fs – emphasizing taxation of foreign, not domestic, production.
Yet today, 240 years after the Revolution, we have turned things completely upsi
de-down.
We tax and regulate and restrict our companies to death, then we allow foreign c
ountries that cheat to export their goods to us tax-free.
As a result, we have become more dependent on foreign countries than ever before
.
Ladies and Gentlemen, it’s time to declare our economic independence once agai
n.
That means reversing two of the worst legacies of the Clinton years.
America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997 – even 
as the country has increased its population by 50 million people.
At the center of this catastrophe are two trade deals pushed by Bill and Hillary
 Clinton.
First, the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Second, China’s entr
y into the World Trade Organization.
NAFTA was the worst trade deal in history, and China’s entrance into the World
 Trade Organization has enabled the greatest jobs theft in history.
It was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA in 1993, and Hillary Clinton who supported 
it.
It was also Bill Clinton who lobbied for China’s disastrous entry into the Wor
ld Trade Organization, and Hillary Clinton who backed that terrible agreement.
Then, as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton stood by idly while China cheated o
n its currency, added another trillion dollars to our trade deficits, and stole 
hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property.
The city of Pittsburgh, and the State of Pennsylvania, have lost one-third of th
eir manufacturing jobs since the Clintons put China into the WTO.
Fifty thousand factories across America have shut their doors in that time.
Almost half of our entire manufacturing trade deficit in goods with the world is
 the result of trade with China.
It was also Hillary Clinton, as Secretary of State, who shoved us into a job-kil
ling deal with South Korea in 2012.
As reported by the Economic Policy Institute in May, this deal doubled our trade
 deficit with South Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000 American jobs.
As Bernie Sanders said, Hillary Clinton “Voted for virtually every trade agree
ment that has cost the workers of this country millions of jobs.”
Trade reform, and the negotiation of great trade deals, is the quickest way to b
ring our jobs back.
To understand why trade reform creates jobs, we need to understand how all natio
ns grow and prosper.
Massive trade deficits subtract directly from our Gross Domestic Product.
From 1947 to 2001 – a span of over five decades – our inflation-adjusted gro
ss domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5%.
However, since 2002 – the year after we fully opened our markets to Chinese im
ports – that GDP growth rate has been cut almost in half.
What does this mean for Americans? For every one percent of GDP growth we fail t
o generate in any given year, we also fail to create over one million jobs.
America’s “job creation deficit” due to slower growth since 2002 is well o
ver 20 million jobs – and that’s just about the number of jobs our country n
eeds right now to put America back to work at decent wages.
The Transpacific-Partnership is the greatest danger yet.
The TPP would be the death blow for American manufacturing.
It would give up all of our economic leverage to an international commission tha
t would put the interests of foreign countries above our own.
It would further open our markets to aggressive currency cheaters. It would make
 it easier for our trading competitors to ship cheap subsidized goods into U.S. 
markets – while allowing foreign countries to continue putting barriers in fro
nt of our exports.
The TPP would lower tariffs on foreign cars, while leaving in place the foreign 
practices that keep American cars from being sold overseas. The TPP even created
 a backdoor for China to supply car parts for automobiles made in Mexico.
The agreement would also force American workers to compete directly against work
ers from Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries on Earth.
Not only will the TPP undermine our economy, but it will undermine our independe
nce.
The TPP creates a new international commission that makes decisions the American
 people can’t veto.
These commissions are great Hillary Clinton’s Wall Street funders who can spen
d vast amounts of money to influence the outcomes.
It should be no surprise then that Hillary Clinton, according to Bloomberg, took
 a “leading part in drafting the Trans-Pacific Partnership”.
She praised or pushed the TPP on 45 separate occasions, and even called it the 
gold standard”.
Hillary Clinton was totally for the TPP just a short while ago, but when she saw
 my stance, which is totally against, she was shamed into saying she would be ag
ainst it too – but have no doubt, she will immediately approve it if it is put
 before her, guaranteed.
She will do this just as she has betrayed American workers for Wall Street throu
ghout her career.
Here’s how it would go: she would make a small token change, declare the pact 
fixed, and ram it through.
That’s why Hillary is now only saying she has problems with the TPP “in its 
current form,” – ensuring that she can rush to embrace it again at her earli
est opportunity.
If the media doesn’t believe me, I have a challenge for you. Ask Hillary Clint
on if she is willing to withdraw from the TPP her first day in office and uncond
itionally rule out its passage in any form.
There is no way to “fix” the TPP. We need bilateral trade deals. We do not n
eed to enter into another massive international agreement that ties us up and bi
nds us down.
A Trump Administration will change our failed trade policy – quickly
Here are 7 steps I would pursue right away to bring back our jobs.
One: I am going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership
, which has not yet been ratified.
Two: I’m going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight
 on behalf of American workers.
Three: I’m going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every violati
on of trade agreements a foreign country is currently using to harm our workers.
 I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American an
d international law to end these abuses.
Four: I’m going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotia
te the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers. And I don
t mean just a little bit better, I mean a lot better. If they do not agree to a
 renegotiation, then I will submit notice under Article 2205 of the NAFTA agreem
ent that America intends to withdraw from the deal.
Five: I am going to instruct my Treasury Secretary to label China a currency man
ipulator. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take advantage of
 the United States will be met with sharply
Six: I am going to instruct the U.S. Trade Representative to bring trade cases a
gainst China, both in this country and at the WTO. China’s unfair subsidy beha
vior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the WTO, and I intend to enfo
rce those rules.
Seven: If China does not stop its illegal activities, including its theft of Ame
rican trade secrets, I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade 
disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with Section 201 and 3
01 of the Trade Act of 1974 and Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.
President Reagan deployed similar trade measures when motorcycle and semiconduct
or imports threatened U.S. industry. His tariff on Japanese motorcycles was 45% 
and his tariff to shield America’s semiconductor industry was 100%.
Hillary Clinton, and her campaign of fear, will try to spread the lie that these
 actions will start a trade war. She has it completely backwards.
Hillary Clinton unleashed a trade war against the American worker when she suppo
rted one terrible trade deal after another – from NAFTA to China to South Kore
a.
A Trump Administration will end that war by getting a fair deal for the American
 people.
The era of economic surrender will finally be over.
A new era of prosperity will finally begin.
America will be independent once more.
Under a Trump Presidency, the American worker will finally have a President who 
will protect them and fight for them.
We will stand up to trade cheating anywhere and everywhere it threatens an Ameri
can job.
We will make America the best place in the world to start a business, hire worke
rs, and open a factory.
This includes massive tax reform to lift the crushing burdens on American worker
s and businesses.
We will also get rid of wasteful rules and regulations which are destroying our 
job creation capacity.
Many people think that these regulations are an even greater impediment than the
 fact that we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world.
We are also going to fully capture America’s tremendous energy capacity. This 
will create vast profits for our workers and begin reducing our deficit. Hillary
 Clinton wants to shut down energy production and shut down the mines.
A Trump Administration will also ensure that we start using American steel for A
merican infrastructure.
Just like the American steel from Pennsylvania that built the Empire State build
ing.
It will be American steel that will fortify American’s crumbling bridges.
It will be American steel that sends our skyscrapers soaring into the sky.
It will be American steel that rebuilds our inner cities.
It will be American hands that remake this country, and it will be American ener
gy – mined from American resources – that powers this country.
It will be American workers who are hired to do the job.
We are going to put American-produced steel back into the backbone of our countr
y. This alone will create massive numbers of jobs.
On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy, we are going to put America First a
gain.
We are going to make America wealthy again.
We are going to reject Hillary Clinton’s politics of fear, futility, and incom
petence.
We are going to embrace the possibilities of change.
It is time to believe in the future.
It is time to believe in each other.
It is time to Believe In America.
This Is How We Are Going To Make America Great Again – For All Americans.
We Are Going To Make America Great Again For Everyone – Greater Than Ever Befo
re.
Thank you.